Lesson1
Freed American hostage, David Jacobsen, appealed today for the release of the remaining captives in Lebanon, saying, "Those guys are in hell and we've got to get them home." Jacobsen made his remarks as he arrived at Wiesbaden, West Germany, accompanied by Anglican Church envoy, Terry Waite, who worked to gain his release. And Waite says his efforts will continue. Jacobsen had a checkup at the air force hospital in Wiesbaden. And hospital director, Colonel Charles Moffitt says he is doing well. "Although Mr. Jacobsen is tired, our initial impression is that he is physically in very good condition. It also seems that he has dealt with the stresses of his captivity extremely well." Although Jacobsen criticized the US government's handling of the hostage situation in a videotape made during his captivity, today he thanked the Reagan Administration and said he was darn proud to be an American. The Reagan Administration had little to say today about the release of Jacobsen or the likelihood that other hostages may be freed. Boarding Air Force One in Las Vegas, the President said, "There's no way to tell right now. We've been working on that. We've had heart-breaking disappointments." Mr. Reagan was in Las Vegas campaigning for Republican candidate, Jim Santini, who is running behind Democrat, Harry Reed. In Mozambique today a new president was chosen to replace Samora Machel who died in a plane crash two weeks ago. NPR's John Madison reports: "The choice of the 130-member Central Committee of the ruling FRELIMO Party was announced on Mozambique radio this evening. He is Joaquim Chissano, Mozambique's Foreign Minister, No. 3 in the Party. Chissano, who is forty-seven, was Prime Minister of the nine-month transitional government that preceded independence from Portugal in 1975. He negotiated the transfer of power with Portugal. This much is clear tonight: an American held in Lebanon for almost a year and a half is free. David Jacobsen is recuperating in a hospital in Wiesbaden, West Germany. Twenty-four hours earlier, Jacobsen was released in Beirut by Islamic Jihad. But this remains a mystery: what precisely led to his freedom? Jacobsen will spend the next several days in the US air force facility in Wiesbaden for a medical examination. Diedre Barber reports. After preliminary medical checkups today, David Jacobsen's doctor said he was tired but physically in very good condition. US air force hospital commander, Charles Moffitt, said in a medical briefing this afternoon that Jacobsen had lost little weight and seemed extremely fit. He joked that he would not like to take up Jacobsen's challenge to reporters earlier in the day to a six-mile jog around the airport. Despite
his obvious fatigue, Jacobsen spent the afternoon being examined by hospital doctors. He was also seen by a member of the special stress-management team sent from Washington. Colonel Moffitt said that after an initial evaluation it seems as if Jacobsen coped extremely well with the stresses of his captivity. He said there was also no evidence at this point that the fifty-five-year-old hospital director had been tortured or physically abused. Jacobsen seemed very alert, asking detailed questions about the facilities of the Wiesbaden medical complex, according to Moffitt. So far, Jacobsen has refused to answer questions about his five hundred and twenty-four days as a hostage. Speaking briefly to reports after his arrival in Wiesbaden this morning, he said his joy at being free was somewhat diminished by his concern for the other hostages left behind. He thanked the US government and President Ronald Reagan for helping to secure his release. Jacobsen also gave special thanks to Terry Waite, an envoy of the Archbishop of Canterbury, for his help in the negotiation. Waite who accompanied Jacobsen from Beirut to Wiesbaden today, said he might be going to Beirut in several days. There are still seven American hostages being held in Lebanon by different political groups. Jacobsen will be joined in Wiesbaden tomorrow by his family. Hospital officials said they still do not know how many days Jacobsen will remain for tests and debriefing sessions before returning to the United States with his family. For National Public Radio, this is Diedre Barber, Wiesbaden. The leader of Chinese revolution, Mao Tsetong, died ten years ago today. During his lifetime, Mao became a cult figure, but the current government has tried to change that. Now his tomb and embalmed body in Beijing are just another tourist attraction. And no longer do millions of Chinese study or wave aloft the famous "Little Red Book" of Quotations from Chairman Mao. Along with the political writing, Mao wrote poetry as well—poems about the revolution, the Red Army, poems about nature. Willis Barnstone has translated some of Mao's work and considers him an original master, one of China's most important poets. "Had he not been a revolutionary, perhaps his poetry would not have been as interesting because his personal poetry was the history of China. At the same time because he was a famous revolutionary and leader, it has prejudiced most people, almost correctly, to dismiss his poetry as simply the work of a man who achieved fame elsewhere." "But his work was not dismissed within China though?" "Well, now it's almost consciously forgotten. But when I was there in '72, you could see his poems on every dining room wall, engraved on peach-pits ... During lunch hours, workers would study his poems. They were every place." "Is there, though, a revisionist thinking within literary circles? Are people saying Mao wasn't any good as a poet either?" "No. Well, at least in my conversations in the year I recently spent in Peking teaching at the university there, I found very few people who didn't think he was a very good poet. But they did feel that his suggestions which were that people not write in the
classical style, that they write in what he called the modern style, was very repressive. And as a result, of course, the restriction of publication during the ten years of the Cultural Revolution, poetry was abysmal." "When you say the modern style, would that be, for example, free verse?" "It would be free verse as opposed to classical rhymes or classical forms." "You write in the introduction to one of your translations of poems of Mao Tsetong that people ... you explain that leaders in China, and indeed in the a East, are expected to be accomplished poets." "Yes, I think that's true. The night that Tojo ... before Tojo died, he, ... in Japan, he wrote some poems. Ho Chi Minh was a poet. It was common. In fact, I think until early in the twentieth century, even to pass a bureaucratic exam, one had to know a huge number of classical forms. And especially, a leader should at least be a poet." "There is one poem which is political in nature which has to do with a parasitic disease in China." "Yes. Mao wrote some poems, two poems actually, about getting rid of a disease that was a plague for the country. And it's called 'Saying goodbye to the God of Disease.' And the poem needs annotation. In that sense, it's typical of classical Chinese poetry; he makes references to earlier emperors and places. Saying Goodbye to the God of Disease Mauve waters and green mountains are nothing When the great ancient doctor Hua Tuo Could not defeat a tiny worm. A thousand villages collapsed, were choked with weeds, Men were lost arrows, ghosts sang In the doorway of a few desolate houses. Yet now in a day, we leap around the earth, Or explore a thousand milky ways. And if the cowherd who loves on a star Asks about the God of plagues, Tell him, happy or sad, "The God is gone, Washed away in the waters." A poem by Mao Tsetong read by Willis Barnstone, Professor of Comparative Literature at Indiana University in Bloomington. He talked with us from WFIU.
---
Lesson2
Iran's official news agency said today former US National Security Advisor Robert McFarlane and four other Americans were jailed in Tehran for five days recently after they arrived on a secret diplomatic mission. The report quoted the speaker of Iran's parliament as saying President Reagan sent the group to Tehran posing as aircraft crewmen. He said they carried with them a Bible signed by the President and a cake.
He said the presents were designed to improve relations between the two countries. Neither the Reagan Administration nor McFarlane had any comment on the report. There were published reports in the Middle East that hostage David Jacobsen was freed as a result of negotiations between the United States and Iran. Asked about that today, Anglican Church envoy Terry Waite said that he didn't want to comment on the political dynamics. But Waite said he may know within the next twenty-four hours from his contacts if he will be returning to Beirut to negotiate the release of more hostages. Jacobsen was reunited with his family today, but again said his joy could not be complete until the other hostages are freed. He appeared on the hospital balcony with his family and talked with reporters. Hospital director Colonel Charles Moffitt says Jacobsen needs to communicate with people now. "He likes to talk, whether that be to a group of press or to individual physicians. Once you get him started on a subject, he wants to talk because he hasn't been able to do that." Moffitt says Jacobsen is in good health and will not need followup medical care. A low to moderate turnout is reported across the nation so far on this election day. Voters are choosing members of the one hundredth Congress, thirty-four senators and all four hundred thirty-five members of the US House of Representatives. One of the big questions is which Party will control the Senate after today's voting. President Reagan's former National Security Advisor, Robert McFarlane, and four other Americans may have visited Tehran recently on a secret diplomatic mission. Today, on the seventh anniversary of the seizure of the US embassy in Tehran, Iran Speaker of the Parliament said the visiting Americans were held for five days before being expelled from the country. NPR was unable to reach Mr. McFarlane today for comment and the White House says that it can neither confirm nor deny the story. NPR's Elizabeth Colton reports. Today in Tehran, Speaker of the Parliament, Hashami Rafsanjani took the occasion to tell a rally that President Reagan had recently sent personal envoys to Iran, calling for improvement of relations. In response to the American overtures, Rafsanjani announced that Iran will advise its friends in Lebanon, in other words the hostage takers, to free US and French hostages if Israel frees Lebanese prisoners, and if the American and French governments end their hostility to the revolutionary government of Iran. Rafsanjani then reportedly described for the tens of thousands outside his parliament, the visit of the five American emissaries. The Iranian said they flew in, posing as the flight crew of a plane bringing American military spare parts to Iran from Europe. The US envoys reportedly carried Irish passports, now said to be
held by Iranian officials. And one of the men called himself McFarlane. And according to Rafsanjani, he looked exactly like President Reagan's former National Security Advisor. Rafsanjani claimed that Iranian security officials also have a tape of telephone conversations between the American President and his envoys, The Iranian cleric, Rafsanjani, said the five men were confined to a hotel for five days and later deported after Ayatollah Khomeini advised Iranian officials not to meet them or receive their message. Rafsanjani said the Americans had brought a Bible signed by President Reagan and a key-shaped cake which they said was the symbol of the hope of reopening US-Iran relations. In Tehran today, at the ceremony marking the anniversary of the seizure of the American embassy, Parliamentary Speaker Rafsanjani described the visit by the American emissaries as a sign of Washington's helplessness. The White House said it would neither confirm nor deny the reports, because according to the press office, there are certain matters pertaining to efforts to try to release the hostages, and comments might jeopardize them. Robert McFarlane, who was also a frequent political commentator for NPR's morning edition, has been unavailable for comment. I am Elizabeth Colton in Washington. Over the last few years and around the country, the number of fundamentalist religious groups is said to be growing. Some are called "ultra-fundamentalist" groups. The estimates varied greatly. The number could be as high as two thousand. These organizations have different purposes and beliefs, but usually have one thing in common—strong leadership, quite often one person. Four years ago in October at a fundamentalist Christian commune in West Virginia, a young boy died after a paddling session that lasted for two hours. The child was spanked by his parents. He had hit another child and refused to say he was sorry. We reported the story of that paddling—the story of the Stonegate Community in November of 1982. Since that time, Stonegate leader has been tried and convicted, one of the first times a leader of a religious group has been held responsible for the actions of a member. Also in that time the parents of the child have served jail terms, and now they have agreed to tell their story. The Stonegate Commune was near Charleston, West Virginia, in the northeast corner of the state. It's mostly farming country. The Stonegate members lived outside of town in an old white Victorian house, overlooking the Shenandoah River, eight young families living and working together. They did some farming, some construction work and for a time ran a restaurant in Charleston. It was their intention to become less of a commune and more of a community, with the families living in separate houses on the property. We went to Stonegate on a Sunday evening in November of 1982. We were reluctantly welcomed. Less than a month before, two Stonegate members had been indicted for involuntary manslaughter. They were the parents of Joseph Green, who was two years old when he died. On this night many of the Stonegate people were defensive, almost angry. That was four years ago. The parents, Stewart and Leslie Green, were convicted of involuntary manslaughter and both spent a year in jail. First Stewart, then Leslie.
Then in a separate legal action, the leader of the Stonegate commune, Dorothy McLellan was also indicted. McLellan did not take part in the paddling but she was found guilty of involuntary manslaughter and conspiracy in the death of Joey Green. Stewart Green, the father, testified against Dorothy McLellan. Green now believes that his son died because of McLellan's teachings and influence. He explained in court that the Stonegate members were taught that a paddling session should continue until the child apologizes. Green also testified that a four-hour spanking of Dorothy McLellan's grandson, Danny, had occurred two weeks before Joey Green's death. He also said the Stonegate members, when Joey died, joined in a pledge of secrecy: the circumstances would be covered up; the death would be called an accident. They were afraid all the Stonegate children would be taken away. Joey's parents at first agreed to this. It was later that they spoke out against what they called then a conspiracy of silence. Both Stewart and Leslie Green grew up and married within the Stonegate community. Leslie was only fifteen when she came to the Stonegate. They lived with several other teenagers in the home of Dorothy and John McLellan. The McLellans had been taking in young people who were having trouble, usually with drugs. They wanted to use their marriage as an example of Christian family life. John McLellan worked for an accounting firm, traveling during the week, Dot McLellan staying at home, taking care of more and more teenagers. The Greens are now living in their first real home together, an apartment in Baltimore. Stewart left the Stonegate, and Leslie joined him as soon as she got out of jail. The Greens have now agreed to talk about their lives at Stonegate and about the paddling of their son.
---
Lesson3
IBM, following the lead of General Motors, announced today it's pulling out of South Africa. Like General Motors, IBM says it's selling its South African holdings because of the political and economic situation there. Anti-apartheid groups have praised the decision, but the State Department says business pullouts are regrettable. Spokesman Charles Redmond said today the Reagan Administration believes US corporate involvement in South Africa has been a progressive force against apartheid. "We regret any decision to reduce US private sector involvement in South Africa. Such reductions could have harmful effects on black workers, injure the South African economy which has, on the whole, weakened the premises of apartheid and provided a means of improving the living standards and skills of many people otherwise disadvantaged by apartheid, and it might limit the extent of US influence in South Africa." State Department spokesman Charles Redmond. IBM employs some 1,500 people in South Africa. More than fifty black youths were arrested today in Harare, Zimbabwe, when police broke up demonstrations at South African offices and the US embassy. Julie Fredricks
reports. "A group of more than a thousand students and youths caused thousands of dollars of damage by burning and stoning the offices of the South African trade mission, South African Airways, Air Malawi, and the Malawian High Commission. The demonstrators suspected South African complicity in the plane crash that killed Mozambiquan President Machel in South Africa and blamed Malawi for supporting the Pretoria-backed insurgents that are attacking Mozambique. Zimbabwean government officials appealed for calm, and a statement from Prime Minister Mugabe just back from a trip to London is expected tomorrow. For National Public Radio, this is Julie Fredricks in Harare. President Reagan met for about an hour today with West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl at the White House. Kohl is the first European Leader to visit the President since the Reykjavik summit. US officials say Kohl expressed support for the President's SDI program. West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl is in Washington D.C. for four days of meetings. Among the issues on his agenda are economic relations with the US and Germany's policy towards southern Africa. But today, Kohl's talk with President Reagan was dominated by the recent US-Soviet summit meeting in Iceland. NPR's Brenda Wilson reports. While no major agreement was signed by the United States and the Soviet Union in Reykjavik, the two countries made progress in arms control talks in areas that are a central concern to America's European allies. Those particular areas involve disarmament proposals made in Iceland, affecting medium-range missiles and long-range missiles over which allies have voiced some reservations. This was a major topic of discussion with Chancellor Kohl today, even though his Foreign Minister was briefed by the US Secretary of State only last week. In remarks welcoming Chancellor Kohl, President Reagan sounded a positive note, saying that there was ample reason for optimism. "When the next agreement is finally reached with the Soviet Union, and I say when, not if, it will not be the result of weakness of timidity on the part of Western nations. Instead, it will flow from our strength, realism and unity." The President also explained that achieving such an agreement would depend upon pushing ahead with his Strategic Defense Initiative, SDI, because it offered protection against cheating. But members of NATO, including Germany, have expressed concern that eliminating medium-range missiles in Europe as was proposed in Reykjavik would potentially leave Europe vulnerable to the Soviet shorter-range missiles and greater superiority in conventional forces. They expressed doubts that SDI could make up for those deficiencies. The allies, in particular West Germany, want reductions in medium-range missiles tied to reductions in shorter-range missiles and conventional forces. Chancellor Kohl was expected to press these points and to urge President Reagan to compromise on SDI to keep talks between the US and the Soviets moving. Speaking through an interpreter in his arrival remarks, Kohl did not
mention SDI, "It remains our goal, and I know that I shared with you, Mr. President, to create peace and security with ever fewer weapons. In Reykjavik, thanks to your serious and consistent efforts in pursuit of peace, a major step was taken in this direction. And we must now take the opportunities that present themselves without endangering our defensive capability." After the meeting between Kohl and the President, a senior administration official quoted Kohl as saying that he has always been in favor of the Strategic Defense system. At the White House, I'm Brenda Wilson. A group of business leaders in Boston today announced plans to expand a college scholarship program to include any eligible Boston high school graduate. The business leaders announced plans for a permanent five-million dollar endowment fund, and they also promise to hire any of the students who go on to complete their college educations. Andrew Kaffery of member station WBUR has the report. The Boston business community's involvement in the Boston public school dates back almost twenty years, from work internships to an endowment program for Boston teachers. Business has pumped more than one million dollars into the public schools. Now business leaders say they're ready to make their biggest commitment yet: a multi-million dollar scholarship program that will enable the city's poorest kids to go on to college and to jobs afterward. The program is called Action Center for Educational Services and Scholarships, or ACESS. According to Daniel Cheever, the President of Boston's Wheelock College, ACESS in not a blank check for the eligible graduates. "First We'll help them get as much aid as they can from other sources, and secondly, we'll provide the last dollar scholarship. I should add, of course, they have to qualify for financial aid; that is, we're not handing out money to students who don't need it." The average grant is around five hundred dollars and already the program has given one hundred Boston students more than fifty thousand dollars in scholarship money. Other assistance from the program has helped those students raise more than six hundred thousand dollars in additional financial aid. School officials say this program will help a system where 43% of the students live below the poverty level, and almost half who enter high school drop out. Robert Weaver was on Boston high school graduate who could not afford college. He's in the ACESS program now and will get a degree in airplane mechanics next year from the Wentworth Institute of Technology in Boston. "I got the Pale grant and the state scholarship, but there was still a gap. There was like a twenty-three hundred-dollar gap. Wentworth's total bill was fifty-seven hundred, so I had to fill that amount with working over the summer, my family contribution. I paid for my own books, my own tools, things like that. But without ACESS I wouldn't be where I am today." This program comes at an important time for the city of Boston. Unemployment here is among the lowest in the nation and business leaders say they're having a hard time finding qualified job applicants. So the ACESS program is not just good public relations. Business leaders, like Edward Philips, who is the chairman of the ACESS
program, say there's a bit of self-preservation involved. "Over time, we believe this program will increase the flow of Boston residents into Boston businesses and that, of course, is a self-serving opportunity. If where you are has a supply of qualified people to enter managerial and technical-professional level jobs, that can't be anything but a plus." Philips says any scholarship student who finishes college will be given hiring priority over other job applicants by the participating businesses. College student Robert Weaver says the program has inspired other high school students to stay in school. "I went back to my high school yesterday, Brighton High School, and I talked to a senior class, the general assembly, and I was telling them basically what I'm involved in, and basically, to get yourselves motivated and go look for those ACESS advisers. They're not going to come to you all the time. You have to get out there and get it if you want to take account for your own life, because no one else is going to do it for you. And that really pumped them up, and now that they're aware, and they know that ACESS advisers are there, things will be a lot easier for them." The business group is in the middle of a five-million-dollar fund drive. Two million dollars has already been collected. Thirty-two of Boston's most influential corporations have already joined in, with twenty more soon to follow. The program has drawn the praise of US Education Secretary William Bennett, who predicted it will become a national model. For National Public Radio, I'm Andrew Kaffery in Boston.
---
Lesson4
Another American has been kidnapped in West Beirut. Fifty-three-year-old Frank Reed was abducted by four gunmen this morning. Islamic Jihad claimed responsibility, accusing Reed of being a spy. The pro-Iranian group already holds at least three other Americans and three Frenchmen. Reed is the Director of the Lebanese International School. He is a native of Malden, Massachusetts and has lived in Lebanon for eight years. A federal jury in Brooklyn, New York today indicted a Soviet UN employee on charges of spying. Gennadi Zakharov is being held without bond, Pending trial on the charges. John Kailish has more from New York. "The thirty-nine-year-old Soviet physicist worked at the UN Center for Science and Technology until August 23rd when he was arrested on a Queens Subway platform for allegedly buying military secrets from a college student. It turned out that the student worked for the FBI and was known by the code name 'Berg.' According to today's indictment, Zakharov agreed to pay Berg for information involving the national defense of the United States. Berg, in turn, agreed to work for the Soviet Union for a period of ten years. The two met a total of four times, from April 1983 to August of 1986. At their final meeting, Zakharov allegedly gave Berg a thousand dollars. Zakharov is currently being held in a federal jail in Manhattan. He faces life in prison if convicted on the espionage charges."
The foreign editor of a news magazine recently banned in Chile has been found shot dead near a cemetery in Santiago. The family of Jose Carrasco says he was taken from his home by armed men who claimed to be police. Carrasco's magazine, Analisis , has been banned under the new state of siege imposed in Chile after an attempt this weekend to assassinate President Augusto Pinochet. Since the attempt, police have been rounding up opposition leaders although they deny they arrested Carrasco. In Chile, the military government held a rally today in support of President Augusto Pinochet, who escaped an assassination attempt two days ago. A crackdown on opponents of his government continued in response to that attack. A journalist for an opposition magazine was found dead. His family and colleagues charge he had been kidnapped yesterday by police. Tim Fosca reports now from Santiago. Several thousand people gathered in front of La Moneda, the presidential palace, for a rally in support General Augusto Pinochet this afternoon. Heavily armed soldiers were stationed along major downtown streets for the demonstration, which is celebrating the thirteenth anniversary this week of the military takeover. Hundreds of members of women's charity groups passed in review before General Pinochet and his wife Lucia. The head of state appeared physically unaffected by his close call Sunday when he narrowly escaped assassination. Hours before the rally, Jose Carrasco, a thirty-eight-year-old editor at the opposition magazine Analisis was found dead in a Santiago cemetery. He had been shot ten times. Carrasco's wife said he was roused from bed early Monday morning by men claiming to be police. But authorities officially denied his arrest. Carrasco, a member of MIR, the revolutionary left movement, had been back in Chile only two years after eight years in exile. The bodies of at least two more murdered victims were also found today, but their identities have not yet been established. Arrests continued in the second day of the state of siege. More leftist political figures were rounded up, bringing the total number of detentions to twenty. The government has issued arrest orders for a number others, some of whom are in hiding. On the list is at least one member of the Chilean Human Rights Commission. A spokesman said the homes of Commission members in the provincial city of San Fernando were also raided, but no members were at home. All opposition magazines were ordered closed yesterday, including the Christian democratic weekly, Hoy . Under the last state of siege in 1984 and 85, Hoy was allowed to continue publishing. The situation of five foreign priests and one local lay worker detained yesterday remains unresolved. The clergymen were accused of attacking police officers and carrying instructions on how to make home-made bombs. General Pinochet warned yesterday that human rights advocates would have to be expelled. For National Public Radio, this is Tim Fosca in Santiago. Fifty years ago, Henry Ford and his son Edsel, placed a modest amount of their vast
wealth into a charitable foundation. That was the common practice then and is now for wealthy Americans. The once modest foundation has grown into the largest general purpose charitable organization in the world. The Ford Foundation has given away more than six billion dollars. Its money has touched every aspect of American life, touched the arts, science and even public radio. Warren Kozak has this report. A symphony orchestra in the Midwest, an inner-city building project, Africa's chronic food shortages. These varied activities have one thing in common: all have received money from the Ford Foundation. Just off New York's Forty-second Street, in the shadow of the United Nations, a modern building with a huge glass wall serves as the world headquarters of the Ford Foundation. Besides giving away money, the Foundation has always attracted some of the country's best minds. "Well, I should tell you that I do not join any organization, including Ford Foundation, unless it can satisfy two criteria." Former Secretary of Defense, World Bank President, and Ford Board member, Robert McNamara. "One, I insist that it be an organization I feel some capability of contributing to. And, secondly, I insist it be an organization that can contribute to me, that can stimulate my interest, enlarge my understanding of the world. I should say that it has been, I think the most interesting association of my life." At the Foundation's headquarters, a staff of more than three hundred people studies data from all over the world, spots trends and writes recommendations. In the large board room, the directors argue the merits of individual requests and eventually decide who will get what part of the one hundred and twenty-five million dollars that goes out every year. If you think giving away that kind of money is easy, you're wrong. There is no question that today's Ford Foundation with a four and a half billion-dollar endowment is a force of its own. But is wasn't always that way. You see, back in 1936, there were just a few large foundations when Henry and Edsel started their small project. Their original contribution was only twenty-five thousand dollars and its main function was to help local charities in Michigan. Then in 1943, son Edsel died unexpectedly, followed four years later by his father. And the family lawyers had a huge problem on their hands. At the time of their deaths, the Ford Motor Company was not a public corporation. These two men owned most of the stock and, for tax reasons, a great deal of it had to be disposed of and quickly. There was only one logical recipient of the windfall. So, in the late forties, the sleepy Michigan charity became, almost overnight, the largest foundation in the world. The Third World development programs also continue to take a lot of heat from time to time. Millions of dollars have been poured into what seems to be a bottomless pit. Some problems have been solved only to find new ones taking their place. Robert McNamara defends Ford's involvement there. He thinks Foundations offer something that no one else is able to do, because without their research the government's foreign aid would be wasted. "It's insane to put as much money, invest as much money, per year with as inadequate an intellectual foundation of how to maximize the efficiency of those investments. And Africa is a perfect illustration of the problem. Tens of billions of
dollars are being invested in Africa today. They need more. But, despite that investment, the GNP growth per capita in the countries of sub-Saharian Africa has been negative, on average, for a decade. The food production per capita has been negative, per capita, for over a decade. Why? Who knows? Nobody knows. And governments are too large; they're too rigid; they're too inflexible; they're too insensitive, really, unable to move as rapidly, and in some ways, as radically as is necessary to find the answer to that question." This year the Ford Foundation will receive about nine thousand formal requests for money. All of the letters and forms will be looked at; some will be studied more closely; and about twelve hundred lucky projects will receive anywhere from a thousand dollars to several million to help them along the way. I'm Warren Kozak in Washington.
---
Lesson5
The House began debate today on a three-year bill to combat trafficking and use of illegal drugs. The measure has the support of most representatives and House Speaker Thomas O'Neill says he expects it to pass by tomorrow. Among other things, the bill would increase penalties for violators, provide money to increase drug enforcement and coast guard personnel, and require drug producing countries to establish eradication programs as a condition of US support for development loans. A cultural exchange between the US and the Soviet Union may face an American boycott unless US News and World Report correspondent, Nicholas Daniloff, is freed from a Moscow jail. An American style town meeting is scheduled to take place in Latvia next week, but the two hundred seventy Americans due to take part say they won't go if Daniloff remains in jail. They add the decision is a personal one and is not being made by the Reagan Administration in retaliation for the Daniloff detention. Egyptian and Israeli negotiators have reached agreement on resolving the Taba border dispute, clearing the way for a summit between the two countries to begin tomorrow. Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak and Israeli Prime Minister Shimon Peres will meet in Alexandria. Details of the Taba agreement have not been made available. The United States House of Representatives is debating an omnibus drug bill and expects to pass the measure tomorrow. Though the bill has attracted strong bipartisan support, NPR's Cokey Roberts reports the debate on the issue points up the differences between political parties. When Congress returned from the Fourth of July recess, House Speaker Tip O'Neill
said there was only one thing members were talking about in the cloak-room: drugs. The Democrats quickly pulled together chairmen from twelve different committees to draft a drug package. Then, stung by criticism that they were acting in a partisan fashion, the Democratic leaders invited the Republicans to join them in the newly declared war on drugs. So, when the bill came to the House floor today, the party leaders led off debate. Texas Democrat Jim Wright. "It's time to declare an all-out war, to mobilize our forces, public and private, national and local, in a total coordinated assault upon this menace, which is draining our economy of some two hundred and thirty billion dollars this year, slowly rotting away the fabric of our society, seducing and killing our young. That it will take money is hardly debatable. We can't fight artillery with spitballs." The question of just how much money this measure will cost has not been answered to the satisfaction of all members. Democrats say it's one and half billion dollars over three years, with almost seven hundred thousand for next year. Republicans claim the price tag will run higher and are trying to emphasize other aspects of the drug battle, aspects which they think play better in Republican campaigns. Minority leader Robert Michel. "The ultimate cure for the drug epidemic must come from within the heart of each individual faced with the temptation of taking drugs. It is ultimately a problem of character, of will power, of family and community, and concern, and personal pride." Among other items, the bill before the House increases penalties for most drug related crimes, sets the minimum jail term of twenty years for drug trafficking and manufacturing, authorizes money for the drug enforcement administration and prison construction, beefs up the ability of the coast guard and customs service to stop drugs coming into this country, and creates programs for drug education. The various sections of the measure give House members ample opportunity to speak on an issue where they want their voices heard. Maryland Democratic Barbara McCulsky was nominated for the Senate yesterday. Today, she spoke to the part of the bill which funds drug eradication programs in foreign countries. "When we fought yellow fever, we didn't go at it one mosquito at a time. We went right to the swamp. That's what the Foreign Affairs section of this legislation will do. It will go to the swamps, or where cocaine is either grown, refined, or manufactured." Republican Henson Moore is running for the Senate in Louisiana. He spoke to the part of the drug bill which changes the trade laws for countries which deal in drugs. "We're moving to stop something; it's absolutely idiotic. It needs to be stopped: this situation of where a country can sell legally to us on the one hand and illegally to us under the table, selling drugs in this country poisoning our young people and our population." Today in China, in Nanjing, balloons, firecrackers and lion dancers mark the dedication of the Johns Hopkins University—Nanjing University Center for Chinese and American Studies. For the first time since World War II, Chinese and American
students will attend a graduate institution in China that is administered jointly by academic organizations that are worlds apart figuratively and literally. NPR's Susan Stanberg reports. Cross-cultural encounters can be extremely enriching; cross-cultural encounters can be utterly absurd. "Let's see. That would be eighty-seven. So, ... ba-shi-qi-nian-qian, ... let's see, ... equal ... proposition equal, ..." Here's what that American was trying to say in Chinese. "Four score and seven years ago, our fathers brought forth on this continent a new nation ... a new nation conceived in liberty, and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal." Now you don't have to be dealing with classic American oratory to run into problems. In planning for the Center for Chinese and American Studies, there was much debate as to whether the new auditorium on the Nanjing campus should have a flat or sloped floor. If the floor were flat, the auditorium could be used for dances, for parties, but a sloped floor would be better for listening, for viewing films and slides. "The argument finally won out that for practical reasons a flat floor would be best because it ... it really would make it a multi-purpose room. You wouldn't have to fix the furniture." Stephen Muller is President of Johns Hopkins University, the US end of this Sino-American joint venture in learning. "So, a flat floor was built. Only the Chinese in building it finally ended up with a flat floor but at two different levels, one higher than the other. So, if you want to use it for dances, you either have to have very short women with very tall men or vice versa." Twenty-four Americans and thirty-six Chinese of mixed heights are the first students at the Hopkins-Nanjing Center. Nanjing used to be Nanking, by the way, back in the days when Beijing was Peking. The Americans will take classes in Chinese history, economics, trade, politics, all from Chinese faculty. The Chinese will study the US with American university professors. Johns Hopkins President Stephen Muller says this is advanced study work. All the Chinese students are proficient in English; all the Americans have master's degrees plus fluency in Chinese. "The twenty-four Americans come from about eighteen colleges and universities. No one institution in this country produces that many people of this character; so that's a beginning. Nanjing is not the place; the Center is not the place to go, if you want a doctorate in Chinese history or Chinese language or Chinese literature or whatever. This is a pre-professional program." Which means the men and women who spend the year at the Nanjing Center will end up as diplomats or business people in one another's country. "Our hope is that the Americans, to speak about those, who are going to be incidentally rooming with Chinese roommates, which is a very interesting thing the Chinese agree to, that the Americans will not only bring a year of living in China, a year of having studied with Chinese faculty and hearing the Chinese view of Chinese foreign policy in economics and so on, that they will also have the kind of friends
among Chinese roughly their age who are going to be dealing with the United States. That will slowly, over the years, create a real network, if you will, if people who, because they've had this common experience, can deal with each other very easily and, you know, be kind of a rallying point—an old boy, old girl network, as it were." Hopkins President Muller admits that a simple exchange program—Chinese students coming to the US, and American students going to China—would involve far fewer headaches than running jointly an academic institution on foreign soil. Plus the success of the Hopkins-Nanjing Center depends on undependables, like continuing sweet Sino-American relations and being able to attract funding. And there's this wrinkle." "Some of the people who will study there, without any question, will probably come from or afterwards enter the intelligence community. That it's really desirable that people who do that have that kind of background. We're very honest about that, but it's so easy to denounce the whole thing as an espionage center, or something. You know, there's a lot of fragility in this thing." Stephen Muller is President of Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore. The Hopkins-Nanjing University Center for Chinese and American Studies was dedicated today in China. I'm Susan Stanberg. "How do you say good luck in Chinese?" "Don't know. I don't know Chinese." "You'd better learn." "That's a phrase I should know. Yes."
---
Lesson6
The Senate has voted to override President Reagan's veto of sanctions against South Africa by a decisive seventy-eight to twenty-one. As the House has already voted to override, the sanctions now become law. NPR's Linda Wertheimer reports. "American civil rights leaders, including Mrs. Caretta Scott King, watched the Senate debate from the Senate family gallery as members argued not so much about sanctions and the efficacy of sanctions, more about the choice between affirming the bill already passed by congress or supporting the President." American food aid to southern African countries could be cut off if South Africa carries out its threat to ban imports of US grain. Foreign Minister Pic Botha said if US sanctions were imposed, his government would stop imports and would not allow its transport service to carry US grain to neighboring countries. The White House today denied that it planted misleading stories in the American news media as part of a plan to topple Libyan leader Muammar Quddafi. The Washington Post reported this morning that stories were leaked this summer alleging
Quddafi was resuming his support for terrorist activities, even though National Security Adviser John Poindexter knew otherwise. Today, White House spokesman Larry Speakes said Poindexter denied the administration had involved the media in an anti-Quddafi campaign but Speakes left open the possibility a disinformation campaign was conducted in other countries. The question in Washington today is this: Did the federal government try to scare Libya's Colonel Muammar Quddafi in August by way of a disinformation campaign in the American media? The Washington Post Bob Woodward reports today that there was an elaborate disinformation program set up by the White House to convince Quddafi that the United States was about to attack again, or that he might be ousted in a coup. The White House today denies that officials tried to mislead Quddafi by using the American media. NPR's Bill Busenburg has our first report on the controversy. The story starts on August 25th when the Wall Street Journal ran a front page story saying that Libya and the United States were once again on a collision course. Quoting multiple official sources, the paper said Quddafi was plotting new terrorist attacks and the Reagan Administration was preparing to teach him another lesson. The Journal reported that the Pentagon was completing plans for a new and wider bombing of Libya in case the President ordered it. That story caused a flurry of press attention. Officials in Washington and at the western White House in California were asked if it was true. "The story was authoritative," said the White House spokesman Larry Speakes. Based on that official confirmation, other news organizations, including the New York Times , the Washington Post , NPR and the major TV networks, all ran stories suggesting Libya should watch out. US naval maneuvers then taking place in the Mediterranean might be used as a cover for more attacks on Libya as in the past. Today's Washington Post , however, quotes from an August 14th secret White House plan, adopted eleven days before the Wall Street Journal story. It was outlined in a memo written by the President's National Security Advisor John Poindexter. That plan called for a strategy of real and illusory events, using a disinformation program to make Quddafi think the United States was about to move against him militarily. Here are some examples the Post cites, suggesting disinformation was used domestically: Number one, while some US officials told the press Quddafi was stepping up his terrorist plans, President Reagan was being told in a memo that Quddafi was temporarily quiescent, in other words, that he wasn't active. Number two, while some officials were telling the press of internal infighting in Libya to oust Quddafi, US officials really believed he was firmly in power and that CIA's efforts to oust him were not working. Number three, while officials were telling the press the Pentagon was planning new attacks, in fact nothing new was being done. Existing contingency plans were several months old, and the naval maneuvers were just maneuvers. The Post says this policy of deception was approved at a National Security Planning Group meeting chaired by President Reagan and his top aides.
Two new studies were published today on the links between television coverage of suicide and subsequent teenage suicide rates. The New England Journal of Medicine reports that both studies suggest that some teenagers might be more likely to take their own lives after seeing TV programs dealing with suicide. NPR's Lorie Garrett reports. The first suicide study, done by a team from the University of California in San Diego, examines television news coverage of suicides. David Philips and Lundy Carseson looked at forty-five suicide stories carried on network news-casts between 1973 and '79. The researchers then compared the incidence of teen suicides in those years to the dates of broadcast of these stories. David Philips says news coverage of suicides definitely prompted an increase in the number of teens in America who took their lives. "The more TV programs that carry a story, the greater they increase in teen suicides just afterwards." The suicide increase among teens was compared by Philips to adult suicide trends. "The teen suicides go up by about 2.91 teen suicides per story. And adult suicides go up by, I think, around two adult suicides per story. The increase for teens, the percentage increase for teens is very, very much larger than the percentage increase for adults. It's about, I think, fourteen or fifteen times as big a response for teens percentagewise as it is for adults." The TV news coverage appears to have prompted a greater increase than is seen around other well-known periods of adolescent depression, such as holidays, personal birthdays, the start of school and winter. Philips could not find any specific types of stories that seem to trigger a greater response among depressed teens. Philips says it seems to simply be the word "suicide" and the knowledge that somebody actively executed the act that pushes buttons in depressed teenagers. Psychiatrists call this "imitative behavior." "What my study showed was that there seems to be imitation not only of relatively bland behavior like dress, dressing or hairstyles, but there seems to be imitation of really quite deviant behavior as well. The teenagers imitate apparently across the board, not just suicides, but everything else as well." In a separate study, Madeline Gould and David Shaeffer of Columbia University found that made-for-television movies about suicide also stimulated imitative behavior. Even though the movies were intended to portray the problem of teen suicide and offered, in some cases, suicide hot line numbers and advice on counselling, the team believes the four network movies prompted eighty teen suicides. One of the made-for-TV movies examined by the Columbia University team was a CBS production. George Schweitzer, a CBS's Vice President, is well aware of this research. He says, "It is terribly unfortunate that any teens took their lives after the broadcast, but if they had it to do over," says Schweitzer, "CBS would still run the movie." "Studies like these do not measure the most, what we think is the most important thing, which I don't think can be measured, and that is the hundreds and hundreds
and probably thousands of teenagers who were positively moved by these kinds of broadcasts." Moved to call suicide hot lines, moved to seek counseling, and moved to discuss their depressions with family members. Schweitzer does not dispute today's studies: some teens may moved to suicide. "But ignoring the issue for fear of that, I think, would be far more disastrous than addressing important social issues to help create awareness and again to have a positive effect." But researcher David Philips suggests the media could decrease the teen suicide problem by avoiding some suicide stories all together and changing the way the others are covered. For example, says Philips, "Don't make suicide seem heroic." He cites the story of a young Czechoslovakian dissident who set himself on fire. But the dissident action was taken to draw attention to government repression in Czechoslovakia. Should the news media really have ignored such a story? "I think it's a really difficult question. There are all these goods on all sides of the issue. And thank God, I don't have to be the one to disentangle that issue." One prominent expert in this field said the young people moved to take their lives, following a news story or movie, are particularly vulnerable, suicidal individuals. In the absence of television stories, some other events in their lives might well have triggered their actions. So while most psychiatrists agree there is an imitative component to teenage suicides, that tendency, they say, should not lead society to repress information. On the contrary, some say we are now facing a major epidemic of adolescent suicide in America. We must publicize and confront the problem. Last year some fifty-five hundred adolescents between fifteen and twenty-four years of age took their lives. At least ten times that tried. Some estimates are that 275 thousand teens attempted suicide last year. The rate of teenage suicide in America has tripled since 1955.
---
Lesson7
Both House and Senate negotiators today approved sweeping immigration legislation that could grant amnesty to millions of illegal aliens who entered the country before 1982. The bill, as worked out in five hours of closed-door negotiations, would establish a system of fines against employers who hire illegal immigrants. It would also make those who came to the US illegally but have established roots in this country eligible for amnesty. The Supreme Court today agreed to decide if Illinois can require minors wanting abortions to notify their parents or obtain judicial consent. The justices will review the decision striking down a 1983 law, which required some girls to wait twenty-four hours after telling their parents they wanted an abortion.
It was announced today that the winner of this year's Noble Peace Prize is Elie Wiesel. He has written twenty-five books on his experiences in a Nazi prison of war camp and on the Holocaust. And he's been a human rights activist for thirty years. NPR's Mike Shuster reports. "Wiesel was sleeping in his Manhattan apartment when he received the word at five o'clock this morning from the Nobel Committee in Oslo, Norway. Wiesel said he was flabbergasted at the news, and later at a press conference, he said he would dedicate his Prize to the survivors of the Holocaust and their children. "The honor is not mine alone. It belongs to all the survivors who have tried to do something with their pain, with their memory, with their silence, with their life." Wiesel, fifty-eight, is a native of Rumania. As a teenager, he and his family were sent to a Nazi death camp. He and two sisters survived; his mother, father, and younger sister did not. After the War, Wiesel went first to France, then to the United States. He is credited with the first use of the word 'Holocaust' to describe the Nazi extermination of the Jews." A House-Senate Conference Committee has agreed to an immigration reform bill. The measure, which had died in the final days of the last two Congresses, now looks as though it will become law. NPR's Cokie Roberts reports. One of the chief advocates of the immigration bill, New York Democrat Charles Schumer, says that this year immigration became a white hat issue, that the forces fighting against the measures finally had a force on the opposite side of equal rate public opinion. The opponents of immigration reform have always been many: Hispanics in Congress and in the country have opposed the part of the bill most lawmakers consider key—punishment for employers who knowingly hire illegals. The measure, passed at a conference today, would provide civil penalties and criminal penalties for those who repeatedly hire illegal aliens. Hispanics worry the employer sanctions would cause discrimination against anyone with an accent or Spanish name, whether legal or not. The new bill includes strong anti-discrimination language for employers who do refuse to hire any Hispanics while still allowing someone to hire a citizen before an alien. To appease Hispanics and others, the immigration bill includes amnesty for aliens who have been in this country for five years. Many border state representatives fought against the legalization provisions, saying that millions of people could eventually become citizens and bring their relatives to this country. All those people could bankrupt the state's social services, said the representatives, but the idea of deporting all of those people seemed impractical as well as inhumane to most members of Congress. And aliens who came to this country before 1982 will be able to apply for legalization. The other major controversial area of the immigration bill is the farm worker program. Agricultural interests wanted to be able to bring workers into this country to harvest crops without being subjected to employer sanctions, but the trade unions opposed this section of the bill. Finally, a compromise was reached where up to three hundred and fifty thousand farm workers could come into this country, but their rights would be protected and they would also be able to
apply for legalization if they met certain conditions. The elements of the final immigration package have been there all along, but this year, say the key lawmakers around this legislation, the Congress was ready to act on them. The combination of horror stories about people coming over the borders and editorials about congressional inability to act made members of Congress decide the time had come to enact immigration reform. But supporters of reform warn the end is not here yet. The conference report must still pass both houses of Congress, and a Senate filibuster is always a possibility. I'm Cokie Roberts at the Capitol. Many photography shops are quite busy this time of the year. People back from vacation are dropping off rolls of film and hoping for the best. But commentator Tom Baudet learned a long time ago he was better off not hoping. I've been told that I take lousy pictures. It's not that my shots aren't technically OK; it's just that my pictures seem to bring out the worst in people. I hope that's not a sign of something. I usually end up throwing half the pictures I take. It's not that they're deceiving. Not at all; they're just too honest. It's true what they say that a camera never lies, but you certainly can lie to a camera. We do it all the time; at least we exaggerate a little to a lens. The first thing you'll usually hear when you point a camera at someone is, "Wait, I'm not ready." Well, so you wait while they brush the crumbs off their chin, put out a cigarette, or throw an arm around the person next to them like they've been standing that way all day. Well, you get your picture, but it's blown all out of proportion. Everybody's having a little more fun than they really were and liking each other more than they actually do. We're all guilty of this one time or another. You're with your sweetheart travelling somewhere. You've been walking and complaining about the price of the room, the blister on your heel and the rude waitress at the cafe. But then, you stop somebody on the street, hand them your camera, and put on your very best having-a-wonderful-time smile. Well, ten years later you'll look at that picture in a scrapbook and remember what a great trip it was, whether it was or not. For it's natural thing to do: plant little seeds of contentment in our lives in case we doubt we ever had any. Well, it's good practice to take an opportunity to mug up to a camera. There never seems to be a camera around for the real special times: that make-up embrace after a long and dangerous discussion, the look on your face as you hold the phone and hear you got that promotion, the quiet ride home from the hospital after learning those suspicious lumps were benign and something to watch but not worry about. Those are the memories that should be preserved, to be remembered and relied upon when harder times take hold. Those times when a photographer like me will catch you at a party with a loneliness on your face that you didn't think would show or bitterness tugging at your lips during a conversation you didn't intend to be overheard. Well, we all slip up like this sometimes, and sooner or later we get caught with our guards down. I think that's why I end up with pictures like that, I like it when people leave their guards down. We all know our best sides, and it's nice to keep that face forward whenever we can. But I don't mind having pictures of the other sides. Either way
they all look just like people to me. Writer Tom Baudet. He lives in Homer, Alaska.
---
Lesson8
Two years of sensitive negotiations paid off today as seventy former Cuban political prisoners arrived in the United States. All of the prisoners had served least ten years in Cuban jails, and some had been in prison since Fidel Castro came to power in 1959. The release was arranged in part by French underwater explorer, Jacques Cousteau, and a delegation of American Roman Catholic bishops. President Reagan today unveiled plans for nine hundred million dollar plan to reduce drug abuse in the United States. It includes half a billion dollars for stepping up drug enforcement along US borders, especially in the southwest. The plan also calls for mandatory drug testing for some federal workers. NPR's Brenda Wilson reports. "As part of his national crusade against drugs, President Reagan signed an executive order today requiring federal workers in sensitive positions to undergo drug tests. The order covers employees who have access to classified information, presidentially appointed officials, law enforcement officials, and any federal worker engaged in activities which affect public health and safety or national security. But heads of government agencies may order additional workers to take the test. Federal employees who are found to have continued to use illegal drugs after a second test will be automatically fired. The overall rug testing program is expected to cost fifty-six million dollars, but administration officials could not get even a ballpark figure of how many workers may be included in the mandatory program. I'm Brenda Wilson." Israeli Prime Minister Shimon Peres is in Washington for talks with US leaders, including President Reagan. Earlier Peres met with Secretary of State George Shultz. Afterwards, the two told reporters that the Soviet Union will have no role in Middle East peace talks, because it has no diplomatic ties with Israel and does not permit free emigration of Soviet Jews. Israel's Prime Minister Shimon Peres is in Washington D. C. this week to confer with high-level US officials. His visit follows his summit with Egyptian President Mubarak last week. This afternoon, the Israeli leader and President Reagan met at the White House. NPR's Elizabeth Colton reports. Israel's Peres comes to Washington only weeks before he is scheduled to step down from the Prime Minister's post and exchange roles with the current Foreign Minister, Yitzhak Shamir. This rotation was arranged two years ago as part of Israel's coalition
national unity government. But what was expected to be little more than a farewell visit for Prime Minister Peres has now taken on a new importance because of Peres' recent achievements towards bringing peace between Israelis and Arabs. At the White House this afternoon President Reagan said that the Middle East peace process was the major topic for discussion. And he praised Prime Minister Peres' efforts in that direction. "We noted favorable trends in the Middle East, not just the longing for peace by the Israeli and Arab peoples, but constructive actions taken by leaders in the region to breathe new life into the peace process. No one has done more than Prime Minister Peres to that end. His vision, his statesmanship, and his tenacity are greatly appreciated here." President Reagan said that other items on the agenda of his meeting with Prime Minister Peres were American economic aid to Israel, international terrorism, and Soviet Jewry. The President assured the Israeli leader that the plight of Soviet Jewry will remain an important topic in all the talks between the US and the Soviets. I'm Elizabeth Colton in Washington. A chapbook arrived in the mail a while back from the Northeastern Ohio University's College of Medicine. The chapbook, a small pamphlet of collected poetry, contains works by students, part of the school's "Human Values in Medicine" program. NPR's Susan Stanberg leafed through the poems. The selected works by finalists in the "William Carlos Williams Poetry Competition," named for America's great poet-physician, the New Jersey country doctor who used to scroll drafts of poems on pages of his prescription pads. William Carlos Williams wrote short, sometimes, and to the quick. This is just to say I have eaten the plums That were in the ice box, And which you were probably saving for breakfast. Forgive me; they were delicious, So sweet and so cold. "Let me read it again." And he did. William Carlos Williams, who died in 1963, has been an inspiration to patients and physicians. So, it's fitting that the Northeastern Ohio University's College of Medicine should name its poetry competition for him. Now, at the beginning of its fifth year, the competition is open to all medical students in this country, but just one percent of them, a few hundred or so, entered the competition. "I'm sure a lot more are closet poets and aren't willing yet to submit. We hope they do." Martin Cohn, director of the Human Values in Medicine's program at the College of Medicine, says that students' poetry centers around several themes. "I guess it falls into categories that all poets write about, including lovers and friends and sorrowful kinds of situations, but then there is also the experience that they're most intimate with, which is medical school itself, which is also a theme, and also relationships with patients." Poetry by ten medical students is presented in the chapbook, accompanied by
biographical notes on each of the poets. Kurt Beal, at the University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston, describes himself this way. "I write to remember, to find, to uncover, to unfold. I have learned that poetry is music. And I write because I cannot sing." Martin Cohn has some samples of poems from the chapbook. P.C. Bowman of the Medical College of Virginia School of Medicine wrote "Cartographer about his Wife." When I watch you watching yourselves in the mirror, Undress not with caution but with care, Peeling the swimsuit from shoulders and breasts, Exposing the belly flat from its vortex to the ribs, Ordered as architecture. The hip swell That breaks my geometer's heart. It is a map of some impossible country, Whose turns widen to vistas and stations So sudden that I cannot breathe or comprehend How I have wandered there and kept my life. "Wonderful poem." "Ya." "But he doesn't have to be a doctor to have written it." "No. That's true." "Give us one that could only be written by a doctor." "OK. There is a poem, another one on anatomy, that was written by Diane Roston, who, as the other poets, has a very interesting background. She danced for a number of years in a regional company and also had taken courses in journalism. And she writes of an experience with a cadaver, and the life of this cadaver. And she ends the poem with the following verse. Now student to anatomy. Cleave and mark this slab Of thirty-one-year-old caucasian female flesh, Limbs, thorax, cranium, muscle by rigid muscle. Disassemble this motorcycle victim's every part, As if so gray a matter never wore a flashing ruby dress. "I notice there's so much of that in this poetry by the medical students, the reminders to themselves of humanity here. It's not just arteries; it's not just anatomy. There are humans." "That's right. And we feel we're just trying to do our part to encourage them to remember. Many students shuck off we arts and humanities when they enter medical school, and even if we can keep them involved, even if it's a thread of involvement, or vicarious involvement by reading, not necessarily writing—that's what we are trying to do." At the Northeastern Ohio University's College of Medicine, Martin Cohn says there's no evidence that the making of poetry produces better medicine, but he has to believe it helps the students understand themselves and their patients better. And so the William Carlos Williams Poetry Competition continues. I'm Susan Stanberg.
This is just to say I have eaten the plums That were in the ice box And which you were probably saving for breakfast. Forgive me; they were delicious, So sweet and so cold.
---
Lesson9
There was an assassination attempt against Indian Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi today. A man fired several shots at Gandhi and other Indian leaders participating in an open-air prayer meeting. Gandhi was not injured. Six people received minor wounds when the gunman burst from the brushes where he had apparently hidden prior to the ceremony to avoid security checks. He surrendered when guards surrounded him. Those in charge of Gandhi's security have been suspended, and an investigation is under way. Jess Moore, NASA's top official in charge of the shuttle program when Challenger exploded, announced today he's leaving his new post as Director of the Johnson Space Center. Moore will take a leave of absence and then be reassigned to NASA headquarters in Washington. NPR's Daniel Zwerdling reports. "The obvious question, of course, is this: Is Jess Moore leaving his job and taking a year off work because of the Challenger accident? Moore came under quite a bit of pressure before a congressional committee early this summer when his former assistant testified that he told Moore in detail almost a year ago that there were serious problems with the shuttle rocket's O-rings, the same O-rings that eventually caused the Challenger accident. That testimony flatly contradicted what Moore's been saying all along: that he did not know the O-ring problems were serious until after the Challenger exploded. Congressional sources who've interviewed Moore told me that they have no way of knowing just Who's telling the truth, Moore, or Moore's former assistant. But one top congressional aide who met with Morre recently says the NASA veteran's been depressed since the Challenger blew up. He says, 'Moore doesn't have the edge he used to. He's hollow inside, just like a lot of guys at NASA who worked on the shuttle.' 'Jess Moore,' the aide says, 'is not the man he was before the accident, and he needs a rest.' I'm Daniel Zwerdling in Washington." Indian Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi survived an assassination attempt in New Delhi today. The assailant fired a succession of shots at Gandhi, who was attending a Hindu prayer service with his wife and Indian President Zail Singh. Official sources have called the incident a major security lapse. Witnesses say Gandhi told security guards two times he had heard gun shots; the security forces reportedly dismissed the noise as motorcycle backfire. It was over half an hour later that police finally surrounded
and captured the gunman. Six people were injured during the arrest. The BBC's Humphrey Hoxley reports. An official statement from the Home Ministry said that those police officials who were directly responsible for the security arrangements for Mr. Gandhi have been suspended from duty. Senior officials in the Ministry say that a top-level investigation is under way to determine why the security around the Prime Minister, who's meant to be one of the most closely protected government leaders in the world, collapsed and how a gunman armed with an illegally manufactured revolver broke through the security cordon undetected to get within a few feet of the Prime Minister. Police say the gunman who's in his twenties may even have fired at Mr. Gandhi and his party as they were approaching the area to commemorate the birthday of the independence leader Mohandas Gandhi, who is cremated there. The area was searched immediately; but security men failed to spot the gunman, who was hiding on top of a concrete shelter hidden among thick green vines. The man opened fire again when Mr. Gandhi was leaving half an hour later. But when he was spotted, eyewitnesses say, he threw up his arms and shouted in Hindi, "I surrender." Police say he's not connected with any terrorist organization; nor is he part of the Sikh movement which murdered Mr. Gandhi's mother, Indira, two years ago. Humphrey Hoxley, BBC, Delhi. It is not just the weather with which farmers contend; there are higher costs for growing food and lower prices when selling it. And these combined to make farming an increasingly difficult life, especially for small family farms. In New York, a new organization called "Farm Hands" is trying to help struggling farms in the region by linking city dwellers with farmers. As John Kailish reports, the scheme seems to benefit both. Last week, two actors, a housewife, a tour guide, a dog walker and an unemployed social worker, all from the New York metropolitan area, spent a day working on Hall Gibson's fruit and vegetable farm located in the Upstate New York town of Brewster. The contingent also included two four-year-olds. The group listened attentively as Gibson gave the lengthy orientation talk complete with aerial photographs of his 125-acre farm. "This area was called part of the New York milk shed. One of the big incentives to producing milk in this area was the founding of the Borden plant." After the orientation talk the group walked to a five-acre field that was lined with rows of tomatoes and turnips, eggplants and cabbage. Gibson gave some brief picking instructions to two women who were going to harvest cherry tomatoes. "If they are split like this, throw them away or eat them." "OK." The transplanted urbanites picked six bushels of tomatoes and sixty pints of raspberries over the course of several hours. The farmhands were perfect strangers when they left Manhattan, but out in the field in Putnam County, they had no trouble striking up conversations that included such heady topics as romance in television. Laura Moore, a housewife and part-time teacher from Brooklyn, has made four trips to area farms with her daughter Jessie. She was picking yellow low-acid tomatoes as she explained why she enjoys the Farm Hands program.
"It's therapeutic, mentally, physically, and it's exhilarating. This is my way of getting out, escaping the city life for a while. I love the city. But in the fresh air, you get a feeling that you are really living." In addition to the one-day farm outings, Farm Hands also places individuals on farms for periods ranging from a week to several months. In exchange for their labor, Participants get a minimum wage, room and board, or produce to take back with them to the city. In its first year of operation, Farm Hands has placed twenty people on farms for a period of two months or longer. More than two hundred people have gone on the one-day work intensives or the field trips that are often more play than work. Hall Gibson has had four long term farm-hands this summer. At the moment, he's benefiting from the hard work of a twenty-eight-year-old New York City painter named Debby Fisher. Because Gibson's farm is organic, weeds are a major problem. Farmer Gibson says that when Debby Fisher clears weeds from the fields, she works like a demon. "She's been just driven to rescue crops and she's rescued a number of crops. My bok choy crop-the best I've ever had-was rescued by her. Debby is a gem." The Farm Hands program was founded by twenty-seven-year-old Wendy Dubid, an enthusiastic advocate of linking farms and cities. In an interview at a farmers' market in New York city, Dubid said Farm Hands may mean cheap labors for farmers, but she maintains he program has a broader impact. "It's not just the labor that helps those farmers; it's the appreciative consumers. They suddenly realize after an hour of picking raspberries and scratching their own arms on the bramble, they understand the farm reality and the value of food, and may become valuable consumers and customers for those farmers." Dubid says there was only one Farm Hand placement that did not work out this year, a fifteen-year-old football player who antagonized his host family in Upstate New York. Farmhands are currently working in New York, Connecticut and New Jersey. Plans are already under way to expand the Farm Hands program to Maryland, Pennsylvania, Massachusetts and Vermont.
---
Lesson10
President Reagan said today he will veto a defense spending bill if it is approved, as expected, by the House. Speaking to a private group in Washington today, the President said he was concerned about provisions in the bill that would ban nuclear testing and cut funding for his Star Wars defense system. The President also charged that the Soviet-backed ban on nuclear testing is "a backdoor to a nuclear freeze." And he accused the Soviets of a major propaganda campaign on the testing issue. Israeli warplanes bombed suspected Palestinian guerrilla bases in Southeast Beirut today. Police said the bomb set at least four targets on fire. There are reports that two people were wounded in the attacks.
At a news conference in Pretoria today, South African Foreign Minister Pic Botha called international sanctions against his country "a mad perverse action" that will put many blacks out of work. But Botha said the South African government "accepts the challenge to overcome the effect of sanctions." White House spokesman Larry Speakes said today President Reagan will veto on Friday a sanctions bill passed by Congress, but he admitted it will be tough to sustain the veto. On Wall Street today, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was up four and a half points, closing at 1797.81. Trading was moderate, one hundred thirty-two million shares. Israeli warplanes today bombed four suspected Palestinian guerrilla bases in Lebanon. Reports from Beirut say at least two people were wounded and a number of fires started in the four villages. From Jerusalem, Jerry Cheslow filed this report which was subject to censorship by Israeli authorities. According to the Israeli army spokesman, the targets were bases belonging to two pro-Syrian Palestinian guerrilla organizations. Israeli military sources say one of the targets was a staging base for raids against northern Israel. Lebanese radio stations reported that at least two people were wounded in the attack south of Beirut and that Beirut International Airport was closed for half an hour. Israeli military sources stress that the air raid had nothing to do with this week's tensions along Israel's border with Lebanon. They were between the Shi'ite Muslim Hizbullah (Party of God) Militia and the Israeli-backed South Lebanese Army Militia. Over the past two weeks, large Hizbullah forces stormed dozens of South Lebanese Army positions. Israeli military sources say that at least fifteen South Lebanese Army men and some fifty members of Hizbullah were killed. According to the sources the attacks also badly damaged the morale of the South Lebanese Army, and this led Israel to deploy a large force along its border with Lebanon. The force included troops, armor and artillery, and according to knowledgeable observers it was equipped for offensive action against Hizbullah. Senior Israeli defense sources say that Hizbullah was trying to take over all of southern Lebanon. Hizbullah has also been attacking Unifil, the UN force in Southern Lebanon. Over the past six weeks, four French Unifil troops were killed by Hizbullah, and just this morning a French UN base was rocketed in Southern Lebanon. There were no casualty, but some of its soldiers were blown off their seats. And the sources said that Hizbullah's domination of Southern Lebanon would be a direct threat to Israel. Some of its men who were killed were wearing kerchiefs with the words "Onward to Jerusalem" printed on them. But since the Israeli troops deployed along the border three days ago, there have been no Hizbullah attacks on the South
Lebanese Army. By nightfall here in the Middle East, the Israeli troops had returned to their bases. For National Public Radio, I'm Jerry Cheslow in Jerusalem. This week, Californian wine workers vote on a contract proposal from winery owners. The workers have now been on strike for six weeks. The contract proposal calls for cuts in wages and cuts in benefits. The prospects for rank and file approval seem slim. A central issue of the strike is the economic well-being of the California wine industry. William Drummond reports. A gondola containing tons of freshly picked Chardenay grapes is dumped into a hopper as the process begins for bottling the 1986 vintage. The harvest has continued despite the fact that more than two thousand winery workers have struck twelve of the biggest wineries in Northern and Central California. Relying on automated plants and non-union labor, members of the Winery Owners' Association have succeeded in carrying on what looks like business is usual. But out on the picket line, union worker Pat Scoley is anything but pleased. "I guess they're doing all right. If they aren't, they want us to think they are. I hope to hell they aren't, between you and me." The union contract expired at the end of July, which is the beginning of the harvest, the time when wine makers usually need all the help they can get. But many plants are like the Charles Krug Winery, which has been completely automated. Owner Peter Mondaby says the strike has no effect on producing the product. "We feel that we can go on indefinitely, because there's a lot of people who want to work. And it's only a question of training these people and, of course, with the system that we have, very well computerized, that they can fit in with a reasonable amount of training, that they can fit in. So, I mean, we're not concerned about it." Actually, the heavy rainfall several days ago in the Napa Valley seemed to disturb the owners more than the strike. Mondaby produces around a million cases a year, super premium brands under the Charles Krug label, mid-range premium wines and jug wines. Mondaby says the industry took a beating during the last several years because of cheap wine imports from Europe. Even though Americans today are drinking more wine chiefly in the form of wine coolers, wine makers say there's not that much profit in the coolers, and they're still in a financial pinch. "I feel that the industry has hit its low point and now in on the uptrend. Of course, it's not an uptrend that you will see overnight, but it is a healthy uptrend in a gradual growth manner now. But I wouldn't necessarily say a greater profitability because the profit is very, very marginal. The volume is there, it's true, but the profit is very, very marginal. Mondaby's marginal profit argument does not win much support among striking workers, like Hannah Stockton, who works in the bottling plant at Christian Brothers. "I don't believe it, 'because I read the paper every day, and I listen to the news. I mean, there has been increase in sale. I mean, ... I believe three or four years back, we had a slump in the industry. But wine is coming back. Now they are coming out with wine coolers; they are making money. We don't want a raise; we just want to
keep what we've got." Wages for workers in the winery industry range from around eight dollars to fifteen dollars an hour. The union was willing to give up a slight reduction in wages, but refused to accept cuts in the pension and health benefits. The employers reportedly want a twenty percent reduction in the wages and benefits package. Winery owners say the union has to recognize that overall costs have increased. "Not only is your gross down; the competition has forced us to increase marketing and advertising, which is further eroding whatever margin was there." David Spualding is general manager of a winery in Calistoga. Spaulding Vineyards is tiny compared to Charles Krug and Gallo, and Spaulding Vineyards is not on strike, but David Spaulding says he faces the same market forces as the big guys. "I think the big problem is the same problem that faces agriculture all over this country; and that is surplus. You know we are producing more and producing it more efficiently, and we have a production that exceeds the demand in the market." Spaulding says wine coolers have taken up some of the over-production, but not all of it. As for the union leaders, they don't think it's good idea to give back wages and benefits when the demand for the product is on the increase. Winery workers are voting all this week on the wages and benefits cuts proposed by management. Jerry Davis is an official of the union. "From the people I talked to today and what the negotiating committee is stating, we ask a NO vote on this proposal." The results are expected to be known by Thursday. For National Public Radio, I'm William Drummond reporting.
---
Lesson11
Texas Air announced today that it will buy the troubled People Express Airlines for about a hundred and twenty-five million dollars. The proposed deal would allow most People Express employees to keep their jobs, although the company will eventually lose its identity and become part of Texas Air. Federal officials must approve the merger. Texas Air is also trying to buy Eastern Airlines. A rally on Wall Street today after six consecutive losing sessions, the Dow Jones Industrial Average ended the day up nearly nine points, to close at seventeen sixty-seven point fifty-eight. What's being called a "Freedom Flight" of seventy former Cuban Political prisoners landed in Miami today to an ecstatic reception by thousands of relatives and well-wishers. The plane also carried forty-one relatives of former prisoners. The flight culminated nearly two years of negotiations with the Castro regime.
Texas Air Corporation today announced that it has agreed to buy People Express Airlines for one hundred twenty-five million dollars in securities. Texas Air already owns Continental Airlines and New York Air. It is in the process of acquiring Eastern Airlines. People Express, one of the first no-frills, low-fare air carriers, has been in financial trouble lately. It was forced to shut down its subsidiary, Frontier Airlines. Texas Air now says it will acquire Frontier's assets as part of its deal with People Express. Joining us now from New York, NPR's business reporter Barbara Mantel. "Barbara, it is said this is a very attractive low price, this one hundred twenty-five million dollars in securities. Besides that, why does Texas Air want People Express?" "Well, Frank Lorenzo, who is Chairman of Texas Air, will get airplanes from People Express, which he might need. He will get the lowest cost work-force in the industry at People Express. He will get a new terminal at Newark, New Jersey that People Express is building. He'll get flights to London, and he will get control over competition. People Express competes heavily, especially in the northeast corridor, with Texas Air." "This issue of competition has been a sticking point before for the Department of Transportation when two airlines wanted to get together. How will Texas Air get around it this time?" "Well, they might not, Texas Air wanted to acquire East ..., or wants to acquire, Eastern Airline, and the Department of Transportation said, 'No, not unless you sell more landing slots, more slots in the northeast corridor to Pan Am so that we'll have some competition there.' And Texas Air agreed to that just last week. That may happen again here. The Department of Transportation may require that Texas Air sell some slots or some gates to another airline to ensure that there is still competition in the northeast part of the marketplace. But Texas Air has some leverage here with the Department of Transportation because People Express is a failing company. And the Department of Transportation may feel, 'Well, we'll let them buy People Express and keep it running, rather than let it fail and lose all those jobs." "Mm hm. Now, if the deal is approved by the Department of Transportation, what is it likely to mean for consumers? If there's less competition the fares could possibly go up." "Well, yes. You would think that when you move from two competitors in a market to just one airliner that prices would just have to go up. But I want you to keep in mind that unrestricted fares of the kind People Express offered, you know, wholesale unrestricted fares, were being eliminated and phased out anyway, because they were not profitable. And the Department of Transportation theory here is that if you allow mergers to take place, or many mergers to take place, you might create more efficiencies and low costs, leading possibly to lower fares. And also the Department of Transportation believes that there's a lot of potential competition in the marketplace. Airlines can move planes around and buy gates, and so that if an airline in a particular market segment was making a lot of money and raising prices excessively, other airlines would move in and prices would be brought down through competition. So that it's a nice theory, the theory of potential competition keeping
prices in line, but it's sort of a new idea and it's not clear that that's really the way it would work." "Thanks." From New York, NPR's Barbara Mantel. "My audiences have been very devoted over the years throughout the country. And they've expanded and grown and the country audience has been just as kind and as supportive as the folk audience has been." "I was thinking though, nonetheless, when I put on this album, 'The Last of the True Believers,' especially the title cut, that I heard more country there than I'd perhaps heard before." "Well, I guess it has ... I've moved in that direction, mainly because I am playing with the band more. My natural roots are there in country and hillbilly music. And so I think that just comes out more when you put the band with it." "I want to ask you some questions, please, about this album, about the ... not so much what's on the inside right now, but what's on the outside—a picture on the front of you in front of a Woolworth store, someplace, I guess, in Texas or Tennessee, and ..." "Houston, Texas." "In Houston, Texas? Is it the Woolworth store that has the hardwood floor still and the parakeets in the back and that sort of thing?" "Well, this one that we shot this in front of in Houston Texas is one of the largest ones in the country. It's a two-storey and it's got the escalator that does a little pinging noise every couple of minutes. And it takes up a whole city block." "But, why a cover photo in front of Woolworth's?" "Well, that comes from the song 'Love at the Five and Dime,' which was a song that Cathy Mattea also cut this year and had my first, you know, top five country hit with. And it deals with the Woolworth store." "There is, on the cover, you are holding a book, and you can't really see. ... What is the name of the book on the cover you're holding?" "In the Kindness of Strangers, the latest Tennessee Williams' biography." "And on the back is Larry McMurtrie's book about a cattle drive around the turn of the century, Lonesome Dove ." "He's my main prose hero." "Now, why? Why would you do that? Why would you pose with a book?" "Well, I have, my audience consists of a lot of young people between the ages of, maybe you know, fourteen and twenty-five. And I read a lot, and I also write short stories and have written a novel. And I just feel like young people are missing out because they don't read books. And any time I have the opportunity to influence the young person to pick up a book and read it, I would try to do that." "When you hear these lyrics, when the words come to you, are you hearing the stanzas as poetry or as music?" "Well, I'm hearing them as music. Lyrics usually come to me, and songs come to me as a total picture. And the music and the lyrics come at the same time. Sometimes
they shoot me straight up in bed, you know, in the middle of the night. The Wing and the Wheel' is a very special song to me. It's probably my favorite song that I've ever written. And that song was inspired at the Vancouver Folk Festival by two people who are from Managua, Nicaragua. They have a duo call Duo Guar Buranco. And just about four o'clock in the morning, I was sitting in my hotel room and listening to them sing in the room next door, and looking out the window at this little fingernail moon hanging out over the Vancouver Bay, and that song just came flowing, you know, and was inspired by those two people." "Now, that sounds easy." "Well, it IS easy. If you listen to yourself and you listen to the inspiration that's bringing on that particular song, it's easy. It's just a matter of getting up and writing it down." Nancy Griffith, talking with us in WPLN in Nashville. She is continuing her national tour with the Everly Brothers. Her latest album is called "The Last of the True Believers."
---
Lesson12
American reporter Nicholas Daniloff is in Frankfurt, West Germany, on his way home from Moscow after being detained for a month on espionage charges. President Reagan in Kansas City on a campaign swing announced Daniloff's release, denying that any trade had been agreed to in order to win his freedom. Asked by reporters if he blinked in staring down Soviet leader Gorbachev over the Daniloff affair, the President said they blinked. The agreement to release Daniloff came after a three-hour meeting last night in New York between Secretary of State George Shultz and Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze. No details of the agreement have been released, and it is not known if Daniloff's freedom is the first step in a trade involving accused Soviet spy Gennadi Zakharov. When he arrived in Frankfurt, Daniloff thanked President Reagan, Secretary of State Shultz, and other US officials for "dotting all the i's and crossing the t's" that permitted him to be in Frankfurt tonight. The House of Representatives is expected to vote soon to override President Reagan's veto of a bill imposing economic sanctions against South Africa. NPR's Cokie Roberts reports that the President has promised to expand economic sanctions on his own in hopes of getting Congress to sustain his veto. "Both houses of Congress passed the economic sanctions against South Africa by wide enough margins to override a presidential veto. And it's expected the House will easily garner the two-thirds vote necessary for override. So it's in the Senate the President is concentrating his efforts. Today President Reagan sent a long letter to majority leader Robert Dole, restating his opposition to 'punitive sanctions that harm the victims of apartheid.' The letter went on to outline an executive order the President plans to
sign which would impose some but not all of the sanctions passed by Congress. For example, there'd be a ban on some new investments in South Africa, but not all and a ban on some imports from South Africa, but not as many as called for by Congress. The President hopes the executive order will win over the fourteen additional senators he needs to sustain his veto. The Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee said today that Congress would simply come back next year with tougher sanctions if the veto is sustained. I'm Cokie Roberts at the Capitol." American reporter Nicholas Daniloff was freed today in Moscow. He flew into Frankfurt, West Germany this afternoon and spoke with reporters gathered at the airport. "It's wonderful to be back in the West. I think it's obvious to everybody what has happened over this last month. I was arrested without an arrest warrant. A case was fabricated against me with a narrow political purpose of giving the Soviet Union some political leverage over the case of Gennadi Zakharov in New York. The KGB did not punish me; the KGB punished itself. I cannot tell you anything about any other arrangements. All I know is that I am free in the West, very grateful, delighted to see you." Nicholas Daniloff. When Daniloff left the Soviet Union today he had been detained there for thirty-one days, facing a possible trial on espionage charges. Daniloff left Moscow only hours after Secretary of State Shultz and Soviet Foreign Minister Shevardnadze met last night in New York in the latest of four negotiating sessions concerning the fate of the American journalist. But so far no details have emerged about the arrangements that brought Daniloff his freedom. NPR's Mike Shuster has more from New York. Reporters in Moscow who had been staking out the American Embassy there first got wind this morning that Daniloff might be released, after he left the Embassy in a car and flashed the "V for Victory" sign. Apparently Daniloff was simply informed that he could leave, and his passport was returned to him. He was then taken to the airport along with his wife, and soon thereafter boarded a Lufthansa flight to Frankfurt, West Germany. The official American announcement of his release came from President Reagan mid-day today as he was campaigning in Kansas City, Missouri. "I have something of a news announcement I would like to make, that in case you haven't heard it already, that at twelve o'clock, twelve o'clock Central time, a Lufthansa Airliner, left Moscow bound for Frankfurt West Germany, and on board are Mr. and Mrs. Nicholas Daniloff." So far though neither the White House nor the State Department has said anything about the specific agreements that ended the negotiations on Daniloff. And lacking any fuller explanation from the government, many questions remain. First, what will happen to the Russian scientist Gennadi Zakharov whose arrest last month in New York for spying led to Daniloff's detention? No date has been set for Zakharov's trial in Brooklyn, and a representative of the Justice Department in Brooklyn said today the US attorney there was waiting for instructions on the handling of Zakharov's case. There have been suggestions that Zakharov might be returned to the Soviet Union at
a later date in exchange for one or more jailed Soviet dissidents. There is also the question of the American decision to expel twenty-five Soviet personnel from their United Nations Mission here. Several have already left New York and the deadline for the expulsion of the rest is Wednesday. The Soviets have threatened to retaliate if the order is not rescinded. There is no word whether the agreement that freed Daniloff includes anything on the twenty-five Soviets, which naturally leads to the final question: Has Daniloff's release today brought the United States and the Soviet Union any closer to a summit meeting? Secretaqry Shultz has said that a summit could not take place without Daniloff gaining his freedom. That has now been removed as an impediment to a summit, but the Soviets have called the Zakharov case and the matter of the twenty-five Soviet diplomats obstacles to a summit as well. Until the details are made public of the agreement Shultz and Shevardnadze worked out, it will not be known what the prospects for a summit truly are. This is Mike Shuster in New York. One year ago this month, a powerful earthquake in Mexico City killed more than nine thousand people. Tens of thousands of people lost their jobs because of the massive damage. Among those hardest hit by the quake were women garment workers, who worked in sweatshops concentrated in the heart of Mexico City. One year after the earthquake, Lucie Conger reports that some of the forty thousand seamstresses who lost their jobs are changing their attitudes about work. On the fifth floor of a small office building in the heart of downtown, some thirty garment workers are back at work. Just as before the earthquake they're working on an assembly line. Each woman is specialized in one operation, like sewing cuffs or putting buttonholes on a fancy cocktail dress. But there the similarities with their past work end. The women here on Uruguay Street are running their own cooperative with machines they got from their former employer in a settlement when he closed his factory which was damaged by the earthquake. About fifteen groups of women have former cooperatives, setting up shop with equipment they received instead of an indemnification when factory owners shut down their former places of work. Running their own business has meant big changes for these women. All thirty-five women in this cooperative agree that they prefer working without a boss looking over their shoulder. For Juana Arias, who used to cut patterns for dresses, not having a boss has given her the chance to develop new skills. "Well, sometimes it's my job to solve some problems. I decide when to buy things. For example, when we run out of thread and needles, that's my job to decide on things that are needed." At the same time, since they set up the cooperative five months ago, the women have had the chance to realize that the old system of working for the patron or boss man had its good points. At the cooperative, the women only get paid when they complete a factory order. Last Friday came and went without a pay-check. Their income is low now, because they're assembling dresses instead of earning more by producing ready-made dresses of their own design. There are other concerns as well.
While the seamstresses are grateful for the loans and technical assistance that they're getting from a Catholic church foundation, they worry about repaying the loans and keeping up with operation expenses like rent and phone bills. And leaving behind the tradition of having a boss is a difficult transition for Mexican women who are accustomed from childhood to responding to male authority figures. Paula Socer, a leader at another seamstresses' cooperative. "They don't like us to tell them what to do. Since we are all owners, they think that we each can do what we want." Other garment workers are still working under the patron. But after the earthquake, many of the women began to question their position at work when they saw some factory owners moving more quickly to salvage machinery and cash boxes than to rescue trapped workers. Dramatic events like these moved some four thousand seamstresses to join the September 19th Garment Worker's Union. The women blocked traffic and marched to the presidential palace before getting official recognition as an independent union not forced to affiliate with the ruling party. Through the union, the seamstresses are demanding that factory owners respect the law by giving overtime pay for extra work, allowing workers to take vacation, and providing standard benefits. So far, nine factory owners have signed agreements with the union to guarantee workers' rights. But the union continues to face hurdles. Maria Hernandez worked in an illegal, clandestine sweatshop before the earthquake and is now press chief for the union. "The bosses and the soldout unions are always pressuring the women who work here, threatening them, saying that they're going to close down the business, but that if they continue to organize, one day something is going to happen to their family. And then they start firing people. They offer them money to turn in the ones who are organizing, to tell them who the leaders are." Manuela Purras is a seamstress who was fired in May for organizing the thirty-five women at the factory where she had worked for thirteen years. Today she's operating a small business on the edge of the empty paved lot where the union has its offices in temporary quarters provided by the municipal government. Here, alongside a busy thoroughfare, Manuela spends her days cooking tacos and selling them to passers-by to make a living until she can go back to work. The union is fighting to get Manuela and her co-workers reinstated in their jobs. Manuela Purras: "We've joined the union mostly because we want to see improvements in our working conditions. I think that it will help us. Well, economically it is helping us, and legally too, because at least until now it's not one of those soldout unions." The garment workers still have an uphill battle to fight, to secure a decent living for themselves and their children. In the year since the earthquake, they've made important strides in assuring that they get a fair shake. University students, lawyers and feminists have joined the seamstresses in their fight to set new terms at the work place. The creation of new organizations, like cooperatives and unions, and the forging of new alliances between educated elites and popular groups may be the most lasting legacy wrought from the devastation left by the earthquake. For National Public Radio, this is Lucie Conger in Mexico City.
---
Lesson13
A special committee of twelve senators today began the impeachment trial of Federal Judge Harry Claiborne. It's the first such proceeding in fifteen years. Claiborne is serving a jail sentence for tax evasion. President Reagan today continued his campaign for a drug-free America. He ordered mandatory testing for federal workers in sensitive positions. And he also sent Congress a legislative package that would increase federal anti-drug spending by nine hundred million dollars, much of that on increased border patrols. The President said the legislation is the federal government's way of just saying no to drugs. "We're getting tough on drugs; we mean business. To those who are thinking of using drugs, we say 'Stop.' And to those who are pushing drugs, we say 'Beware.'" Mandatory drug testing for some federal workers is the most controversial part of the President's plan. It's been condemned by some employee groups. One person was killed and more than fifty injured today in Paris when a bomb exploded at the drivers' permit office at police headquarters. It was the fourth blast in seven days in the French capital. In Paris today, one person was killed and more than fifty were injured when a bomb exploded at police headquarters. This is the fourth attack on a crowded public target in a week. A police officer was killed yesterday while removing a bomb from a restaurant on the Avenue Champs Elysee. Minutes after that incident, Prime Minister Jacques Chirac announced new security measures aimed at curbing terrorist activities in France. Melodie Walker reports from Paris. A group calling itself "the Committee for Solidarity with Arab and Middle-Eastern Prisoners" has claimed responsibility for the current series of bombings in Paris, in addition to ten other attacks in the French capital over the past year. The Committee has delivered messages to news agencies in Beirut threatening to continue its bombing campaign in Paris until the French government agrees to release three men jailed in France on charges of terrorism. One of the convicted prisoners, George Ibraham Abdullah, is believed to be the leader of the Lebanese Army Faction suspected of killing a US Military Attache in Paris in 1982. The French government has officially declared it will not release the prisoners. In response to the repeated attacks in Paris, Prime Minister Chirac last night announced new anti-terrorist measures: military patrols along the French borders will be increased and, beginning today, all foreigners will require a visa to enter France. Citizens of European Common Market countries and Switzerland will be exempt from the visa requirement. But
Americans planning to visit France will need to apply for visas at the nearest French consulate. For an initial period of fifteen days, however, emergency visas will be granted at French airports and other border checkpoints. France has been plagued with terrorism at home and abroad in recent years. In the past two weeks, three French members of the United Nations peace keeping force in Lebanon have been killed by remote-controlled bombs. Today, France called for an emergency meeting of the UN Security Council to discuss the role and safety of the force. Seven French hostages in Beirut are also a major concern for the Chirac government. Dominique Moazi, Associate Director of the French Institute for International Relations, says the bombings in Paris, the attacks on the UN troops, and the hostage situation are all indirectly related. "I think there is a global goal, which is looked after, and that is to punish France for its involvement in Middle-Eastern affairs, either Lebanon or the war between Iran and Iraq. And France is, at the same time, more visible than any other European actors, in Lebanon and in the Gulf." According to Moazi, the long French tradition of granting political asylum has made France more open and accessible to terrorist activities. "In the past we have given, unfortunately, the impression, which was maybe a reality, of being less resolute in our treatment of terrorist action than, for example, the Israelis. So that combination of visibility, vulnerability, and lack of resolution has made us the ideal target for terrorists now." In a statement released today, President Francois Mitterand said, "The fight against terrorism is the business of the entire nation." But despite the government's determination to combat terrorism, the question of how to do it remains unanswered. For National Public Radio, this is Melodie Walker in Paris. The United States Senate Intelligence Committee today released a report calling for sweeping changes in US security policies and counter-intelligence, its first unclassified assessment of recent spy cases the Committee says the damage done has cost billions of dollars, threatening America's security as never before. NPR's David Malthus has the story. The report states that damage done from espionage and lax security is worse than anyone in the government has yet acknowledged publicly. It concludes that US military plans and capabilities have been seriously compromised, intelligence operations gravely impaired. US technological advantages have been overcome in some areas because of spying. And diplomatic secrets were exposed to adversaries. Vermont Democrat Patrick Leahy is Vice-Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee. "The national security is many times threatened more by this than by the buildup of Soviet arms, of the buildup of Soviet personnel, or breakthrough in weapon development." The Committee report says foreign intelligence services have penetrated some of the most vital parts of US defense, intelligence, and foreign policy structures. The report
cites a string of recent cases, including the Walker-Whitworth spy ring, which gave the Soviets the ability to decode at least a million military communications. Despite some improvements by the Reagan Administration in security and tough talk over the last two years, the report also concludes that the administration has failed to follow through with enough specific steps to tighten security, and that its counter-intelligence programs have lacked the needed resources to be effective. Republican Dave Durenberger of Minnesota, Chairman of the Intelligence Committee, sums up the current situation this way: "Too many secrets, too much access to secrets, too many spies, too little accountability for securing our national secrets, and too little effort given to combating the very real threat which spies represent to our national security." Senator Durenberger said the Committee found some progress has been made in toughening up security clearances for personnel, and some additional resources have been devoted to countering technical espionage, but he said much more needs to be done and he described the current security system as one "paralyzed by bureaucratic inertia." The Committee makes ninety-five specific recommendations, including greater emphasis on re-investigations of cleared personnel, a streamlined classification system, more money for counter-intelligence elements of the FBI, CIA and the military services, and tighter controls on foreign diplomats from hostile countries. The report cites FBI assessments on how extensively the Soviets use diplomatic cover to hide spying activity. There are twenty-one hundred diplomats, UN officials, and trade representatives from te Soviet Union and Warsaw Pact countries living in the United States. And according to the FBI, 30% of them are professional intelligence officers. The Committee report also says the Soviet Union is effectively using United Nations organizations worldwide to conduct spying operations. It says approximately eight hundred Soviets work for UN agencies, three hundred of them in New York, and one fourth of those are working for the KGB or the Soviet military intelligence, the GRU. Next week, the Reagan Administration is to deliver to the Congress its classified report on counter-intelligence. I'm David Malthus in Washington.
---
Lesson14
State Department spokesman Bernard Kalb resigned today because of the Reagan Administration's alleged disinformation campaign against Libya. The Washington Post reported last week that the administration planted false information about Libya in an effort to destabilize the government of Muammar Quddafi. Kalb today did not confirm or deny that such a campaign took place, but he said reports about it had damaged the credibility of the US. The State Department would not comment on Kalb's resignation. The State Department today criticized the Nicarguan government for allegedly
refusing to grant US officials access to Eugene Hasenfus. He's the survivor of Sunday's plane crash inside Nicaragua. State Department spokesman Charles Redmond. "Our representative was not received by the Nicaraguan government. And we view this with the utmost seriousness. The rendering of consular services is an essential part of the function of an embassy. The Sandinista government has once again taken action to make that function difficult and has raised the question of whether, indeed, a US embassy can function normally within Nicaragua. We frankly cannot accept the delay in granting consular access since the Sandinista government has apparently gone to some lengths to parade Mr. Hasenfus before the press, and considering the fact that a government spokesman stated clearly last night on American television that access would be granted." Meanwhile President Reagan today denied that the downed plane allegedly carrying arms to Contra rebels was operating under official US orders. He also acknowledged that the government has been aware that private American groups and citizens have been helping the anti-government forces in Nicaragua. Last week the Washington Post reported that top-level officials had approved a plan to generate real and illusionary events to make Libya's Colonel Muammar Quddafi think the United States might once again attack. Bernard Kalb's resignation is the first in protest of that policy. A similar resignation occurred at the White House in 1983 when a deputy quit to protest misleading statements given to the press shortly before the American invasion of Grenada. NPR's Bill Busenberg has more on today's announcement. Bernard Kalb had been a veteran diplomatic correspondent for CBS and NBC before being picked two years ago by Secretary of State George Shultz to be the Department's chief spokesman, officially an Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs. His brother, Marvin Kalb, is still with NBC. Today, Bernard Kalb surprised his former colleagues in the news media by quitting over the issue of the administration's disinformaton program. Kalb would not confirm that there was such a program, but he said he faced a choice of remaining silent or registering his dissent. And even though the issue appeared to be fading from the news, Kalb grappled with it privately and decided he had to act. "The controversy may vanish, but when you are sitting alone, it does not go away. And so I've taken the step of stepping down." The State Department has reportedly been involved in the disinformation issue, but Kalb said his guidelines have always been not to lie or mislead the press, and he has not done so. Kalb went out of his way today to praise Secretary Shultz, a man, he said, of such overwhelming integrity that he allows other people to have their own integrity. "In taking this action, I want to emphasize that I am not dissenting from Secretary Shultz, a man of credibility, rather I am dissenting from the reported disinformation program." Kalb's comments suggested Shultz perhaps did not go along with the disinformation program, but in public, the Secretary of State has defended the administration's
policies against Libya, saying in New York last week: "I don't have any problems with the little psychological warfare against Quddafi." He also quoted Winstion Churchill as saying, "In time of war truth is so precious, it must be attended by a bodyguard of lies." Shultz was asked about the disinformation effort last Sunday on ABC. "I don't lie. I've never taken part in any meeting in which it was proposed that we go out and lie to the news media for some effect. And if somebody did that, he was doing it against policy. Now having said that, one of the results of our action against Libya, from all the intelligence we've received, was quite a period of disorientation on the part of Quddafi. So, to the extent we can keep Quddafi off balance by one means or another, including the possibility that we might make another attack, I think that's good." In a sometimes emotional session with reporters today, Bernard Kalb said that neither he personally nor the nation as a whole can stand any policy of disinformation. "I'm concerned about the impact of any such program on the credibility of the United States. Faith, faith in the word of America, is the pulse beat of our democracy. Anything that hurts America's credibility hurts America. And then on a much, much, much lower level, there's question of my own credibility, both as a spokesman and a journalist, a spokesman for a couple of years, a journalist for more years than I want to remember. In fact, I sometimes privately thought of myself as a journalist masquerading as a spokesman. In any case, I do not want my own credibility to be caught up, to be subsumed in this controversy." The timing of Kalb's action today is likely to add to the controversy over government deception. And it comes at an awkward moment for the Reagan Administration, just days before an important pre-summit meeting with the Soviets in Iceland and in the wake of official denials about a downed guerrilla resupply plane in Nicaragua. One American was captured and others were killed in that action, but officials have said the flight was in no way connected with the US government. Kalb said his resignation today had nothing to do with any other incident. I'm Bill Busenberg in Washington. The history of Jews in Poland is not always thoroughly told in the country. And the story of the World War II freedom fighters in the Jewish ghetto of Warsaw is one of the saddest chapters. The Nazis took hundreds of thousands of Jews to their deaths, and seven thousand more died defending the area when the Germans invaded. Dr. Merrick Adelman is one of the very few who survived. A book called Shielding the Flame is his story. It was written in Poland ten years age by Hannah Kroll. It is now available in this country in English. Yohannes Toshimska is one of the translators. She says that Merrick Adelman's view of the ghetto uprising is regarded as unconventional. "He doesn't use the language or even he doesn't have the attitude people usually have to the holocaust and to the ghetto uprisings. One thing he's consistently talking about is the fact that people thought was the arms in the ghetto. It wasn't heroic; it was easier than to die going to the train cars. And that people who participated in
the ghetto uprising were actually, in a sense, lucky. They had arms; they could do something about what was going on while those hundreds of thousands who were led to the train cars were equally heroic, but their death was much more difficult." "Dr. Adelman was stationed ... he was working in a clinic; he was not a doctor then; but he was working in a clinic that was nearby the train station where the Jews were taken to go off to the concentration camps." "Yes. He had an amazing position. He was standing at the gate to the Hmflat Platz, which was the place from where the Jews were taken into the train cars. He was a member of the underground in the ghetto, and he was choosing the people who were needed by the underground. They were perhaps one or two in many thousands of them led every day to the cars. And he would pick these people up, and then young girls who were students at the nurses' school would disabilitate these people. He describes in the book, it's a very powerful scene, how these girls, who were wearing beautiful clean white uniforms of nurse students, would take two pieces of wood and with these two pieces of wood would break legs of the people who were supposed to be saved for the Jewish underground. But the Germans, to the last moment, wanted to maintain the fiction that people who were taken to the trains were being taken for work. And obviously a person with a broken leg couldn't work. So breaking a leg would temporarily save that person from being taken into gas." "So he saw in all, I believe he says four hundred thousand people, go aboard the train." "Yes. He stood there from the very beginning of the extermination action to the end." "With regard to what you were saying earlier, there's a dialogue that develops in the book between an American professor who comes to visit the doctor many years later, and is critical of what happened. He says of the Jews, 'You were going like sheep to your deaths.' The professor had been in World War II; he'd landed on a French beach, and he said that 'Men should run, men should shoot. You were going like sheep.' And Adelman explains this, and let me quote him. 'It is a horrendous thing when one is going so quietly to one's death. It is infinitely more difficult than to go out shooting. After all, it is much easier to die firing. For us, it was much easier to die than it was for someone who first boarded a train car, then rode the train, then dug a hole, then undressed naked.' That's difficult to understand, but then Hannah Kroll says that she understands it because it's easier for people who are watching this to understand, when the people are dying shooting." "It is something probably easier to comprehend because the kind of death most of the people from the ghetto encountered is just beyond comprehension." "Explain the context of the title for Shielding the Flame ; it comes up a bit later on. It has to do with the reason that Dr. Adelman becomes a physician, a cardiologist, after the War, is that he wants this opportunity to deal with people who are in a life-or-death situation." "He says at some point that what he was doing at Hmflat Platz and what he was doing later on as a doctor is like to shield the flame from God who wants to blow this little tiny flame and kill the person, that what he was doing during the War and after
the War was, in a way, doing God's work or doing something against God, even if the God existed." "Do you think this book is going to be accessible to the Western reader reading it in English? It is a bit free in form and in style. It lacks a chronology; certain details are not there or are pre-supposed that one knows." "This book is a little bit like a conversation of two people who aren't that much aware of the fact that someone else is listening to it. And they don't care about this other person who might be listening to it. They don't help this person to follow it. I had a hard time even when I read it for the first time in Polish. However, for me, it has magnetic power and, despite the confusion, I always wanted to go back and to go on." Yahannes Tashimska, the translator, along with Lawrence Weshler, of Shielding the Flame by Hannah Kroll.
---
Lesson15
American reporter Nicholas Daniloff arrived back in the United States today, and accused Soviet spy, Gennadi Zakharov, left for the Soviet Union. Administration officials insisted that there is no connection between the two as they announce plans for a meeting in Iceland, October 11th and 12th, between President Reagan and Soviet leader Gorbachev. We have two reports on today's developments. First, NPR's Jim Angle at the White House. "The preparatory meeting in Iceland was proposed by Secretary Gorbachev in a letter to President Reagan September 19. Secretary Shultz said, today, the meeting will give the two leaders an opportunity to give a special push to preparations for a full-fledged summit later this year in the United States. President Reagan made clear his agreement to the meeting came after an agreement between the two nations on how to resolve the Daniloff affair. 'The release of Daniloff made the meeting possible. I could not have accepted and held that meeting if he was still being held.' But the President and others insisted that Daniloff's release without trial had no connection with Gennadi Zakharov, the accused Soviet spy who was allowed to plead no contest to espionage charges today and ordered out of the country. Secretary Shultz tied Zakharov's departure to the Soviet agreement to release human rights' activist, Yuri Orlov, and allow him and his wife to emigrate. I'm Jim Angle, at the White House." The Vatican today denounced all homosexual activity as morally evil and said homosexuals should be taught that their sexual practices are unacceptable to the Catholic church. The document was relayed to Catholic bishops and restates the church's position that homosexual tendencies are not sinful but activity is. This is NPR in Washington.
University of Maryland basketball coach Lefty Dresell resigned today, another victim of the cocaine-induced death of basketball star Len Bias. Paul Guggenheimer reports. "Dresell's resignation came as no surprise today. In recent weeks, advisors to Maryland Chancellor John Slaughter and some members of the Board of Regents were pushing for Dresell's removal. This morning, at Maryland's Cole Field House, Dresell made it official. 'I want to announce that I am stepping down as the head basketball coach at Maryland. I will remain at Maryland in the position of Assistant Athletic Director. The University has agreed to honor the financial terms of my contract, which has 8 years remaining.' Dresell coached basketball at Maryland for 17 years, but following Bias's death, Dresell told a Grand Jury that he ordered an assistant to remove evidence of drug use from Bias's room, and subsequent revelations that his players were having academic problems proved to be Dresell's undoing. For National Public Radio, I'm Paul Guggenheimer in Washington." American journalist, Nicholas Daniloff, returned to the United Stated today, a free man. He walked off a plane at Dulles Airport outside Washington late this afternoon after a month's detention in the Soviet Union. Daniloff had these words for members of his family and journalists at the airport: "There is always a silver lining in every cloud. In Russian, Nyet Kuda bisdabra. And I believe that the cloud that hung over Soviet-American affairs is dissipating. I understand that the President is going to meet with Mr. Gorbachev shortly in Iceland, and this to me, is a wonderful thing. In my case, the investigation into the charges against me was concluded. There was no trial, and I left as an ordinary, free American citizen. In Zakharov's case, there was a trial, and he received a sentence. I'm sorry I don't remember the exact terms of the sentence, and he left. I do not believe that these two things are in any way equivalent." NPR's Richard Gonzalez is at Dulles Airport now. "Richard, what was the mood of Daniloff and his family when he arrived?" "Well, the Daniloffs enjoyed a rather emotional reunion here at Dulles Airport. Daniloff was cheerfully greeted by his daughter Miranda and his son, Caleb. They celebrated his arrival with a bottle of champagne. And they bought a dozen of yellow roses for their father. Caleb presented his father with a T-shirt that had been printed to say "Free Nick Daniloff" and now had been amended to say "Freed Nick Daniloff", which Daniloff displayed with obvious relish to the cameramen and photographers who were gathered there." "What seemed most on Daniloff's mind when he spoke with reporters today?" "Well, as you heard him say, Daniloff seemed very, very relieved that his own personal honor and integrity as a journalist had been preserved in the negotiations that had freed him. And he repeated once or twice that that he felt that he had not been traded for Zakharov as a spy." "Is there any chance Daniloff who is completing a second tour as a journalist in Moscow will return to the Soviet Union?" "Well, Daniloff told us that he left the Soviet Union with his passport and just as
importantly with his multiple-entry visa, 'which is still valid,' he said. And he ended his news conference by telling reporters that yesterday in Moscow, feeling that he might be leaving the Soviet Union soon, he had placed new flowers on the grave of his great grandfather who was buried in Moscow. And he said, 'I'm hopeful that I'll be able to do that again, some time.'" "But who knows what will happen? What else can you tell us about what the scene looked like there?" "Well, I can tell you that there were throngs of reporters here too, some of whom wanted to greet Mr. Daniloff with applause, and that it took a while for Daniloff to get their attention so that he could tell them what they wanted to hear. I think that the most obvious thing is that he had a lot of friends here, among the press corps, that were very happy to see him, and I think that he really … he had a sparkle in his eye that said, 'Well, I'm finally home.'" "So he seemed a lot more rested perhaps than in Frankfurt?" "Rested, relieved, and I'd have to say well scrubbed." "(Laugh). NPR's Richard Gonzalez talking with us from Dulles Airport." Today, Van Gordon Sauter, the President of CBS News resigned from his job. This resignation, the latest move in a CBS shake-up, which yesterday brought the ouster of CBS Chief Executive Officer Thomas Wyman. He was replaced by Laurence Tisch, the company's leading stockholder. Also, yesterday, the 82-year-old founder of CBS, William Paley, came out of retirement to become the company's Chairman. Writer Ken Aleter says the CBS Board probably put the changes into motion even before the Board meeting yesterday. "There was a regularly scheduled Board dinner, an informal dinner the night before, which is normal for a monthly Board meeting. And Wyman cancelled it, feeling that the Board was so polarized in the battle between Laurence Tisch and Paley on one side, and Thomas Wyman and some of the Board members who are supporters of his on the other. But the Board decided to meet anyway without Tisch or Paley or Wyman, and they apparently met till quite late, which would be Tuesday night. Then at the meeting yesterday, Mr. Wyman presented a budget as planned, and apparently, the Board unanimously was dissatisfied with that budget presentation. And then it was learned that, in fact, there had been, at least I'm informed, that there were overtures made by Wyman and by others aligned with him to try and sell the company, try and find a white knight to stave off Laurence Tisch and Bill Paley." "Last minute scrambling by Wyman?" "Yes, and in the end, the Board asked Tisch and Paley to leave, and then they asked Wyman to leave. So the 3 principle actors in this drama were out of the room when the Board discussed it, and I'm told, unanimously reached the judgment that it was time for a change. " "So it's not really fair to say that Laurence Tisch came rolling into that meeting and just took it over."
"Well, apparently the Board took it over. What happened was, as of late last week, this Board was ready to support Tom Wyman. Something happened in the last several days to turn this Board around. And I think, in part, that something that happened was a growing sense of dissatisfaction with Wyman. And I suspect also, a sense that the Board probably had that the continued blood-letting in the press, would only continue if Wyman remained the helm, and they had to stop it." "Yeah. Let me ask you for a very simplistic answer to a complicated question here. CBS got into this sort of trouble because of problems endemic to the television industry now, or because of mismanagement of CBS?" "Both. Clearly, same thing is happening in all the networks. They're facing a future, at least the immediate future, where revenues no longer grow at the same rate they used to, which is 10, 12, 14 percent a year. Revenues are declining at all three networks. Advertisers are finding other outlets for their money, more efficient outlets, cheaper outlets for their money. There's new competition from the 4th network, from technology, from cable. Second, there was a feeling that, Wyman, though he was a good manager on paper and had a good strong managerial background, was not a people manager. Television is populated by a lot of famous people, who have rather large egos. They're also rather large talents. But in any case, those egos require some stroking. Tom Wyman was not was not a stroker. He was a go-by-the-book kind of manager. So he was a stranger, for instance, to the most important division of CBS, not the division that produces the most money, but the one that produces the most prestige, and that's the news division. " "The CBS News people, as you mention, have been disenchanted of late, and they're probably encouraged by this move, but specifically, what were they fussing about? How have they been mismanaged? Can anyone say?" "Well, I think there are probably a thousand different stories. One story that's received a lot of prominence in the last week is Bill Moyer's story, which is a feeling that the entertainment values at CBS have been enshrined at the expense of news values. That, however, is probably also a little simplistic if you go back to Edward R. Morrow, the late sainted Edward R. Morrow, who's a wonderful journalist, but who was also a journalist who sometimes enshrined entertainment values, for instance, if you go back and look at person-to-person interviews that he did on a program called 'Person to Person', it was a kind of a 'Gee, whiz, oh gosh, it's so nice to be invited into your home' kind of an atmosphere, and hardly hard news. But I think Moyers' complaint suggests how polarized the situation at CBS is." "Ken Aleter. He's the author of the book, Greed and Glory on Wall Street , talking with us in n New York."
---
Lesson16
President Reagan announced today that he and Soviet leader Gobachev will meet in Iceland October 11th and 12th to prepare for a summit between the two leaders in the United States later this year. The announcement came after the release yesterday
from Moscow of American reporter Nicholas Daniloff and a court appearance in New York this morning by accused Soviet spy Gennadi Zakharov, who pleaded no contest to espionage charges and was told to leave the United States within twenty-four hours. Zakharov is now on his way back to the Soviet Union and Daniloff has arrived back in the United States. The movement of Daniloff and Zakharov and plans for the meeting in Iceland were also announced today in Moscow. The BBC's Peter Ruff reports. "The announcement makes it clear that this was at Mr. Gorbachev's invitation, and it's also pointed out that this is simply a preparatory meeting to a possible summit. It's pointed out here that it will enable the Soviet Union to focus on arms issues, particularly the Strategic Defense Initiative, or Star Wars program, President Reagan's refusal to join a test moratorium, and a possible arms deal involving medium-range missiles in Europe. In a separate announcement, the official news agency Tass revealed that Gennadi Zakharov had, as they put it, been released from custody and was returning home. It made no mention of the fact that he'd pleaded no contest in a court in New York. Then came the first official confirmation from the Soviet Union that the American reporter Nicholas Daniloff had been expelled. The news item did not refer to him as a spy but as someone who'd been engaged in inadmissible activity." BBC correspondent Peter Ruff in Moscow. There was no mention in the Soviet press today that prominent Soviet dissident Yuri Orlov and his wife will be allowed to leave for the United States by October 7th. Secretary of State Shultz made that announcement in Washington saying Orlov was the driving force behind the Helsinki Monitoring Group of Civil Rights Activists. In 1978, Orlov was sentenced to seven years in a prison camp to be followed by five more years in internal exile. Shultz said Orlov's release was in exchange for that Zakharov and had nothing to do with Daniloff's freedom. In just eleven days President Reagan and Soviet leader Gorbachev will meet in Iceland for what is described by the two sides as an interim summit or a preparatory summit. The announcement was made at the White House this morning at a news conference held by President Reagen and Secretary of State George Shultz called to discuss the Iceland meeting and the negotiations which had led up to the release of Nicholas Daniloff yesterday. Negotiations for the release of Daniloff went on for over a month. Today, at the same time that the White House news conference was going on, Soviet Foreign Minister Shevardnadze met with the press in New York. NPR's Jim Angle was at the White House, and Mike Shuster was with the Soviet Foreign Minister. "Jim, since Daniloff was only released yesterday, and the details of the negotiations leading up to his release were not known yesterday, didn't announcement of a summit announced before any discussion of the Daniloff affair come as a surprise?" "What was a surprise is that we did not know it was coming. It is not a surprise if you look at the overall context of preparations for a summit and the discussions so far. Of
course, the US had said it would not attend a summit until the Daniloff case was resolved, and the President said today that he could not have accepted this pre-summit preparatory meeting if Daniloff were still being held. Today the matter was resolved. At least we heard that the other details of the matter's resolution, including the fact that Gennadi Zakharov, the accused Soviet spy, was allowed to plead no contest in a New York court and allowed to leave the United States. The resolution of that matter cleared the way for summit preparations. The meeting, of course, this pre-summit meeting, was proposed by Secretary Gorbachev, in a letter delivered to President Reagan by Soviet Foreign Minister Shevardnadze on September 19th. The announcement of this meeting today at the same time as the resolution of Zakharov's status is a way of both sides saying that they consider the Daniloff matter resolved with the exception of one or two details and that no obstacles now exist in the preparations for summit later this year in the US." "At the news conference this morning both President Reagan and Secretary of State Shultz stress that there had been no trade for Nicholas Daniloff. Jim, was this a trade?" "Well, clearly, Daniloff's release, Zakharov's quick trial and departure, and the release of the Soviet dissident were all part of one package. But to the extent that definitions are important, especially in the diplomatic world and in terms of principles and precedents, the US has insisted that there was no trade involved here. They say Daniloff was released without a trial, an implicit acknowledgement, if you will, by the Soviet, that he is not a spy. Zakharov, on the other hand, in pleading no contest to espionage charges, allows, in a sense, the US assertion that he was a spy to stand. President Reagan sought to emphasize today in his remark at the White House that these were separate matters. "There is no connection between these two releases. And I don't know just what you have said so far about this. But there were other arrangements with regard to Zakharov that resulted in his being freed." Margo, the President's referring there to what the US sees as the only trade involved in this whole package, and that is the Soviet agreement to allow Soviet human rights activist Yuri Orlov and his wife to leave the Soviet Union by October 7th." Today in the Supreme Court of the United States, a case involving maternity leave: at issue whether states may require employers to guarantee that pregnant workers are able to return to their jobs after a limited period of unpaid disability leave. NPR's Nina Totenberg reports. Nice states already have laws or regulations that require all employers to protect the jobs of workers who are disabled by pregnancy or childbirth. Depending on what the Supreme Court rules in the case it heard today, those laws will either die or flourish. The test case is from California. It began with Lillian Garland, the receptionist at California Federal Savings and Loan. In 1982, she returned to work after having a child and found she had no job. "After working for California Federal for over three and a half years, I was told at that time they no longer had a position available for me. My question was, 'Well, what
about the job that I've had for so many years?' And they said, 'We hired the person that you trained in your place.' I was in shock." Officials at California Federal say Garland should not have been surprised, that she'd been told at the time she took pregnancy leave that her job was not guaranteed. But the fact is that California law requires all employers in the state to provide up to four months' disability leave for pregnant workers. The leave time is unpaid, and it is only a available to women who, because of pregnancy or childbirth, are physically unable to work. The law does require that such workers get back the same job unless business necessity makes that impossible. So when Lillian Garland was told she couldn't have her old job back, she filed discrimination charges against the bank. The bank then challenged the California pregnancy disability law in court, claiming that the state law amounted to illegal sex discrimination. The bank's reasoning went like this: Federal law bans discrimination in employment based on pregnancy, but the state law mandates disability leave to women for pregnancy while denying the same leave time to men who are disabled by other ailments, such as heart attacks and strokes. California counters that the state law does not discriminate between men and women, that it treats them both the same as to all ailments, but grants disability leave only to pregnant workers. Moreover, California argues that the state law in fact equalizes the situation between man and woman, allowing them both to have children without losing their jobs. The pregnancy disability case has produced some strange bedfellows. The Reagan Administration is siding with the California business community in arguing that federal law requires no special treatment for pregnancy. Many of the major national women's organizations agree, but argue that the way to cure the problem is to give everybody unpaid disability leave in case of illness. Other women's organizations, particularly in California, argue that singling out pregnancy for special treatment is not sex discrimination. Feminist Betty Friedan defends the California law. "It's not discrimination against men to do something about the fact that women give birth to children. It's a fact of life. If men could carry the baby, if men could go through the nine months, if men could have the labor pain, you know, they also should have coverage for pregnancy. You're not discriminating against men; you're recognizing a fact of life: that women are different than men." On the other side, the lawyer for the bank, Ted Olson, argues that special treatment for pregnancy is obviously discrimination, and that California companies risk being sued by one group of people if they follow federal law and by another group of people if they follow state law. "The California law requires special treatment of pregnancy; the federal law requires equal treatment of pregnancy. An employer is entitled to know which law it must follow." The fact is, though, that much of the California business community objects, most of all, to being told that it has to provide any disability leave. Here is Don Butler, President of the Merchants and Manufacturers Association, which is a party to this law suit. "What we have to get back to, though, is who's going to set the disability leave
policies. Is the federal government, is the state of California, or are we, the employers, going to set? You, the employee, have the choice of working for our company under the following conditions or working for another company under other conditions. And I believe that that was what built this country to be a great free enterprise system. And if we're going to legislate it, then we're going to destroy a lot of the incentives to ..." "But basically you don't want to be told to have a disability policy at all." "Right." In the Supreme Court this morning, perhaps the pivotal question was asked by Justice Louis Powell, who posed a hypothetical situation to California Deputy Attorney General Marion Johnston. "Let assume, " said Jusstice Powell, "that a man and a woman in the same company leave their jobs on the same day: he, because he is ill; she, because she's about to have a child. And they return on the same day, but under the California law she gets her job back and he does not. Is that fair?" asks Justice Powell. Lawyer Johnston responded, "It may not be fair, but it's legal. California law," she said, "simply requires that employers treat all their employees, men and women, in the same way with respect to pregnancy. But, since men don't get pregnant, they don't get the time off." A decision in the California case is not expected until next year. I'm Nina Totenberg in Washingtom.
---
Lesson17
Two of the American hostages being held in Lebanon appeared in a videotape released today, appealing to the Reagan Administration to work as hard for their release as it did to get Nicholas Daniloff out of the Soviet Union. Hostage David Jacobsen: "Don't we also deserve the recognition, the respect and the honorable treatment by the United States government? Don't we deserve the same attention and protection that you gave Daniloff?" Jacobsen, who works for the American University Hospital in Beirut, has been held for sixteen months. Also appearing on the videotape was the Associated Press correspondent Terry Anderson, the first time he's been seen since his capture eighteen months ago. Anderson and Jacobsen had said they were also speaking on behalf of hostage Thomas Sutherland. And they spoke of the death of William Buckley whom Islamic Jihad has claimed to have killed. Sutherland blamed President Reagan for Buckley's murder. "President Reagan made his first mistake in the hostage crisis and Buckley died. Mr. President, are you going to make another mistake at the cost of our lives?" President Reagan today defended his efforts to gain the hostages' release. Speaking to reporters as he left for Camp David, Mr. Reagan said there has never been a day that the administration has not been trying every channel. But he said there was no comparison between the case of Nicholas Daniloff and the hostages in Lebanon "because he was held by a government and we don't know who's holding the hostages." Daniloff himself commented on the hostages' appeal, saying his heart goes out to them and they will not be forgotten.
The White House today gave its view of the upcoming meeting between President Reagan and Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev in Iceland. And officials made it clear that the US intends to pursue a much broader agenda than the Soviets are proposing. NPR's Jim Angle reports. "White House spokesman Larry Speakes emphasized today the US does not see the Iceland meeting as a discussion primarily about arms control. 'That issue is important to both nations and the world, ' he said, 'and the US will be diligent in its efforts to seek common ground that could be the basis for progress in arms talks.' Speakes emphasized, however, that the US agenda will be broader than that, even though Soviet statements about the meeting have focused largely on arms control. Speakes says the US will raise all the issues as it usually does, including regional conflicts and tensions in Afghanistan, Africa, the Caribbean, the Middle East, and Southeast Asia. Speakes said that the US will also raise its concern over human rights issues. Speakes' statement on the Iceland meeting today sought to keep expectation to its minimum. The President's goal, he said, is that both sides gain a better understanding of each other's position at this time and move forward toward a summit in the United States. But Speakes said that the US will be satisfied with the meeting if we accomplish better understanding. If no date is set for a summit in the US, he said, that could be done later. I'm Jim Angle at the White House." From Beirut today, the tired voices of two American hostages, a crudely made videotape of journalist Terry Anderson and American University employee David Jacobsen was released this morning by their captor, the Islamic Jihad. The two men read from texts that seemed to have been written by the captors. They sounded bitter as they assailed what they called the Reagan Administration's refusal to act to secure their release. And Anderson confirmed the death of his fellow hostage, American diplomat, William Buckley. Islamic Jihad claims it murdered Buckley in October of last year, but no conclusive proof of his death has ever been found. From Beirut, the BBC's Jim Muir reports. "This was the first time since he was kidnapped by gunmen in March last year that Terry Anderson, the Beirut Bureau Chief of the Associated Press, has been seen on video. He looked fit but thinner and paler than when he was abducted. He bitterly accused the Reagan Administration of ignoring the plight of the American hosetages in Beirut while surrendering to the Russians over the Daniloff case." "'How can any official justify the interest, and attention and action given that case and the inattention given ours? Do the American people know why we are in captivity? Why the marines and others were killed in bombings at Beirut Airport and the Embassy building? Why they can't roam freely about the Middle East but are always in danger? All this is the result of Reagan's policy, a policy against the people of the Middle East. Our captivity is one part of the result of this policy. William Buckley's murder and the killings of many, many others are another part. Your lack of freedom to travel is another result of that policy. We are not surprised that Mr.
Reagan is not paying attention to our case. More than four hundred Americans have been killed in Beirut without causing him to feel any responsibility or to change that policy. We are surprised that the American government has put pressure on some of the European governments not to negotiate in such cases as ours and has surrendered itself in the Daniloff case, releasing a Russian spy, Zakharov, who was working against our people. We are more surprised that the American people still listen to what Reagan says. How long must we stay in captivity? How long will the American government not pay attention?' The same message was put across strongly by one of Mr. Anderson's fellow captives, Mr. David Jacobsen, Director of the American University Hospital in Beirut, who was kidnapped in May last year. He said that the conditions of the hostages were very bad and had worsened over the past two months. But he said the worst pain came from being ignored by his government. The Islamic Jihad is demanding the release of a group of Moslem extremists jailed for bomb attacks in Kuwait. But both Washington and Kuwait itself have refused to negotiate over their release." From Beirut, the BBC's Jim Muir. Embo has been a controversial leader charged with mismanaging UNESCO while taking the agency in an anti-Western direction. The Reagan Administration cited those reasons when pulling the US out of UNESCO in 1984. Last year, the same charges were behind Britain and Singapore's decision to withdraw. Those three defections forced UNESCO to cut its budget by thirty percent and intensified the crisis around Embo's leadership. Jean Gerard, now US Ambassador to Luxembourg, is the former US delegate to UNESCO. Gerard recommended the US withdraw, because she felt UNESCO's programs were moving away from international cooperation toward confrontation. "Take, for example, the New World Information Order, where in their documents they say that the press should be an instrument of the state. Now this, of course, is totally contrary to our concept of a free press. There are more and more programs which emphasize statist type of solutions to problems. In education, for example, in the teacher-training program in Afghanistan, it's run solely by Soviet teachers with a Soviet coordinator. So, in essence, we were paying for the indoctrination of the Afghan people, which again is not my idea of what an international organization ought to be doing." "To what extent do you think Embo is responsible for the directions that you disproved of in UNESCO?" "I think some of them, of course, were already there, but I think they have been very much accentuated under his tenure. And instead of taking the opportunity to reform the organization, to make it work more efficiently and in a more unbiased way, when we gave our notice of withdrawal, there was a great clamor that there was no crisis and initially very little need for reform aside from some cosmetic reform, and a general resentment of the idea." "Can you describe Embo as a leader, what his personality was like, what his
characteristics were as a leader?" "I would say he's certainly very dynamic. He has a great deal of charm, he has a very personal type of management style, and, I think, he tended to take criticism personally. When we had discussions with him about the budget, the Assistant Secretary of State and myself in 1983, since we pointed out that his figures were very different from the figures that we had under discussion, he then said that the United States, in essence, was behaving in a racist manner, that we had deep psychological problems." "Do you think his resignation is a sign that UNESCO wants the United States and England back?" "It's not, as I understand it, a resignation. It was a statement saying that he would not seek a third term. That does not preclude, of course, some countries from urging him to be the candidate, and the Executive Board nominates the candidate to the general conference." "Do you know if there was any direct pressure on Embo to not seek a third term?" "I know quite a few countries in their governments have been saying that they do not favor his having a third term. That includes the Nordics, who went and informed him of that a few months ago. That includes Japan. And so if you call that pressure, there certainly were several countries that indicated that they were not in favor of his having a third term." "Does Embo's decision to not seek a third term represent a success for the US's decision to pull out of UNESCO?" "I wouldn't say it in those words frankly. I think it's a pity he didn't take the opportunity to be the champion of reform. On the other hand, that's his decision." "What would it take for you to recommend to the United States that this country rejoin UNESCO?" "I think to have a good Director General, to see a serious constructive reform take place both in the management and in the programs. I think that's the kind of thing that would influence many people to take another look at it." From Luxembourg, Ambassador Jean Gerard, former US delegate to UNESCO
---
Lesson18
Much of the flood-plagued Midwest got more rain today. Flood waters have forced more than 2,000 families out of their homes. Illinois has suffered heavily with 4 deaths and $ 30,000 damage blamed on flooding. There are also reports that one man was killed today in Oklahoma when his car was swept off a bridge. A partially-ruptured dam was in Wisconsin and remains standing but leaking, and officials are fearful more rain could cause it to burst. A French television cameramen reported kidnapped in Lebanon on Sunday has been freed according to the French Foreign Ministry. A spokesman says Jean Marc Srucie
was released today in the southern suburbs of Beirut and has returned to the Christian east sector of the city. No group claimed responsibility for his kidnapping and the Foreign Ministry did not provide any details about his captivity or his return. President Reagan paid tribute today to former president Jimmy Carter during dedication ceremonies for Mr. Carter's presidential library near Atlanta. President Reagan, who soundly defeated Carter in the 1980 election, said there was no need to downplay differences between the two men: "Our very differences attest to the greatness of our nation, for I can think of no other country on earth where two political leaders could disagree so widely, yet come together in mutual respect." Mr. Reagan went on to say former President Carter graced the White House with his passion, intellect and commitment. The library was dedicated on Mr. Carter's sixty-second birthday. And President Reagan advised his predecessor that life begins at seventy. There was more rain in the Midwest today, where several states are facing rising flood waters. Thousands of people in Illinois and Wisconsin have been forced from their homes. And in Oklahoma, the State National Guard was called upon to rescue stranded homeowners who had been cut off and trapped. In northeastern Illinois, the floods follow 5 straight days of heavy rain. Cheryl Coralie of member station, WBEZ, reports that the governor of Illinois was on the scene with a promise for the people: "They're coming. They're coming. They're on the way." During his tour of the damaged areas, Illinois governor, James Thompson, tried to buoy the spirits of weary residents, alerting them that much coveted sandbags were on the way. Three northern and western counties near Chicago, hard hit by storms, have seen the burgeoning Foy and Desplaines Rivers spill into their streets, their garages and, ultimately, their homes. Residents and authorities had been pinning their hopes on sandbagging. Public works trucks line up to load sand onto their flatbeds. The US Army Corps of Engineers with state officials today are distributing a quarter million of the bags to communities stricken or threatened by ever expanding flood waters. But for some residents, even the sandbags have failed. "The water, from flowing this way, went through and by the pressure finally knocked the sandbags over. And, within a matter of a minute, every wall came down, and I was standing in water this deep." State emergency officials say the state could suffer $ 30,000,000 in damages and what is one of Illinois' worst flooding disasters. Most residents have been trying to tough it out, but rescue worker, Dave Besh, says that's changing: "I know there's people calling up now that refused evacuation yesterday, that are calling here now, getting hold of our trucks verbally because their phones are out, that want to be evacuated now and they're trying to get the boats to get them out of
there." The floods have driven more than 2,000 people from their homes. They have also forced road closures and businesses and schools to shut down. In Gurney, Illinois, the elementary school classrooms sit under 5 feet of water and Gurney Deputy Fire Chief, Tim McGrath, says there's little that can be done. "We know we're going to displace. We know that we're going to sustain more loss. There's no way of confining the river, of course, there's no controlling the river." Today, Governor Thompson declared a number of additional community state disaster areas, setting up the first step for Federal help. The rainy weather forecast is not of much comfort, and some weary workers and homeowners say the only thing left to do now is wait until the flooding passes and put everything back together again. For National Public Radio, I'm Cheryl Coralie in Chicago. Fast food restaurants have made some Americans rich. It's been more than 30 years since the first McDonald's opened, and this nation's eating habits have been transformed by fast food. Today, we spend over $50,000,000,000 a year on Whopper's Big Macs and the Colonel's Fried Chicken. The key is convenience. The ignored factor is nutrition. That's something Michael Jacobson cares about. He's written a Fast Food Guide to tell consumers what's under the bun. As far as hamburgers go, Jacobson says one chain's burger is as good nutritional as the next. "Each chain has a variety of hamburgers: singles, doubles, triples; in some restaurants, cheeseburger, baconburger, mushroom burgers, and generally, when they start gussying up the hamburger with the toppings, you're going to get more fat, more salt, and less nutritious product." "So you think you shouldn't be so concerned with which chain it is you're eating at as far as the burger, but rather whether you're getting the simple, naked burger, or the burger with all the fillings on it. That's where a lot of the fat comes in." "For instance, at Wendy's, you can just get a regular little hamburger, which has about 4 teaspoons of fat, or you can get then triple cheeseburger with 15 teaspoons of fat, and that's a tremendous difference. I think the message for hamburgers and many other fast foods is to keep it simple, keep it small." "Is the meat that's used in most of these chains fattier than what I'd buy if I went to the butcher and bought meat?" "We actually had these meats analyzed, and we found they were pretty average. It was an ordinary grade hamburger meat for most of the chains. You can get much leaner meat at the grocery store, or if you get ground round. If you want red meat and you want to eat at a fast food restaurant, I recommend going for the roast beef. All roast beef was leaner than all hamburger meat in the tests we conducted." "Now this does differ from chain to chain because, for instance, the Roy Roger's roast beef, you have listed as having 2% fat whereas Arby's roast beef, 13%." "The differences in roast beef are really remarkable. Arby's and Hardy's have 7 times as much fat as Roy Roger's. Also, Roy Roger's had real roast beef, whereas Arby's has
kind of a composite roast beef, where the beef is chipped and scrunched together with sodium phosphate and other chemicals." "It is impossible now to watch TV without seeing commercials for chicken nuggets from one chain or another. What are chicken nuggets made out of?" "Chicken McNuggets at McDonald's, probably the original chicken nuggets, are not whole pieces of chicken. Rather it's composite chicken made with ground-up chicken skin held together with sodium phosphate and salt. It's a relatively fatty product, about 5 teaspoons of fat for a small order of McNuggets. The competition at, say, Burger King, which makes chicken tenders, uses real chicken. And the fat content, partly because it doesn't have ground up chicken skin in it, is much lower, about 2 teaspoons for a small order of chicken tenders." "Chicken is a food that is highly recommended by people who are very calorie conscious and are very fat conscious, because it's a food low in fat. But once you get the chicken and you deep fry it, as they do at all the fast food chains, is it still a nutritionally good food?" "Well, chicken products tend to have less fat than beef products partly because the fat stays on the outside. If you're getting fried chicken, you ought to take off the skin, take off the breading. That's where most of the fat, most of the sodium are. So you can turn kind of a mediocre product into really quite a nutritious product." "If the fast food industry came to you for advice about how they could nutritionally improve their menus, what would you tell them?" "Fresh fruit, low-fat diary products, low-fat or skim milk, keep up those salad bars, baked fish, baked chicken, and that lean roast beef. It is possible to offer nutritious tasty foods at a fast food restaurant, and I hope that the chains are moving in the right direction with the proliferation of salad, salad bars, and the like." In Washington, Michael Jacobson, Director of the Center for Science in the Public Interest.
---
Lesson19
Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze said today that some Soviet troops will begin pulling out of Afghanistan within a few days. The remarks came during a news conference held in Ottawa. Shevardnadze told reporters, "We would like to see our boys back home as soon as possible." Shevardnadze is now in Mexico where he will meet with top government officials over the weekend. The next space shuttle mission is planned for lift-off on February 18th, 1988. Today NASA announced its schedule of launches for the next 7 years. NPR's Daniel Zwerding reports: "The new launch schedule is pretty much what NASA's been predicting since shortly after the challenger exploded, NASA administrator James Fletcher said the agency will shoot for only five shuttle launches the first year, 1988, and that's less
than half the number that NASA had been planning for this year until the accident happened. Fletcher said NASA will slowly work its way up to 16 launches a year in the early 1990s. And as administration officials have been predicting, those shuttles will carry a much different mix of cargoes than the shuttles of the past. For at least the first three years, military projects will fill more than half the flight. The Pentagon is way behind launching secret Star Wars tests and military communication satellites. NASA space exploration projects will get next priority, such as the Galileo and Ulysses satellites to study Jupiter and the sun. And commercial business satellites, which were originally supposed to be the financial backbone of the shuttle program, will get only a small fraction of the space in the shuttle cargo bays. I'm Daniel Zwerdling in Washington." There are reports today that John Zaccaro, husband of former presidential candidate, Geraldine Ferarro, has been indicted by a local grand jury in Queens, New York. The Associated Press and United Press International quote a source close to a criminal investigation of Zaccaro, saying the indictment is the result of a probe of bribery allegations in the awarding of cable television contracts. The grand jury has been investigating the activities of Zaccaro and Michael Nussbaum, Campaign Manager of the late Queens Borough President, Donald Mannis. If you want to watch the next space shuttle take-off, mark your calendar for February 18th, 1988. That is according to NASA's official new 7-year space shuttle schedule announced today. NPR's Daniel Zwerdling reports: "During the first year, 1988, the agency plans to launch only 5 shuttles, less than half the number they'd been planning to launch this year until the Challenger accident happened. In 1989, they'll launch 10 shuttles, and then slowly work their way up to 16 flights a year in the early '90s. By then, the Agency officials said today, they'll have built the new 4th safer shuttle although they don't know yet exactly where they'll get the money and they'll start building a permanent space station. The new shuttle program looks a lot more sober than the previous one did. "No," said NASA administrator James Fletcher, "there are no specific plans to send up another teacher or journalist. Until the Challenger exploded, of course, NASA was holding a widely publicized competition to send a reporter into space." "There's a lot of opposition from some quarters to flying any so-called civilians in space, but my bias is, that yes, in time, civilians will be flying again back in space, but certainly not in the first year. I think we want to get our act together first before we start taking a risk of that sort. And as administrative officials have been predicting, the shuttles will carry a much different mix of cargoes than NASA had been planning until the accident. The military will be much more prominent than ever before. For at least the first two years, the Pentagon will fill more than half the shuttle flights with secret Star Wars tests and military communication satellites. NASA space exploration projects will get next priority, such as the Hubble Telescope, which will see closer to
the edges of the universe than any telescope in the past. As for commercial business satellites, which were originally supposed to be the financial backbone of the program, most of them will be bumped for lack of space. Under President Reagan's orders, all commercial space cargo launched in the US will eventually have to fly on private industries' own rockets. I'm Daniel Zwerdling in Washington." Forbes magazine yesterday published its annual list of the 400 wealthiest people in America. Sam Moore Walton, founder of the Wal-Mart Department Store chain heads the list for the second year in a row with a total worth of 4.5 billion dollars. Other familiar names on the list include chicken producer Frank Perdue; fashion designer Ralph Lauren, and TV producers Merv Griffin and Dick Clark, each worth more than the minimum $180,000,000 needed to get on the list. That minimum figure was up from 150,000,000 last year. Also the number of billionaires jumped from 14 to 26. We asked Forbes' Editor Harry Seneker to help us interpret those figures. "Well, it shows that the rich do get richer, and it also shows that we've been doing a little more of our homework each year. It's quite a lot of work to refine your estimates of what people's assets are worth when they are not very eager to co-operate with you. And each year we get a little better. Each year we find a few new ones that we'd missed before." "And some people are left off this list because they don't co-operate, Malcolm Forbes, for one." "Oh no, he's in there. It's just that we wouldn't for the life of us, say exactly where." "You started this list about 5 years ago. Why did it start? Why do you continue to do it?" "Why? Well, it started … the short answer for why it started is that Malcolm Forbes thought that people would be interested in it and insisted on us doing it and doing it right." "But he didn't want to cooperate himself." "Well, you run into certain problems with the IRS and inheritance taxes if you put a number on yourself. You want to negotiate that figure, or your heirs do." "Is there any commonality to how these people have achieved such wealth? Did they earn it the old-fashioned way?" "Well, at some point, everybody, every fortune had to be earned the old-fashioned way. And the old-fashioned way is, you set up a business that can be multiplied indefinitely beyond the limitations of your own personal efforts. It can be an oil business, like John D. Rockefeller did with the Standard Oil Trust. It could be, you know, an organization that can produce dozens of game shows like Merv Griffin." "But of most of them that are on the list, say, this year, are they new to the list, new wealth, or is this mostly inherited fortunes?" "There's a mix of both. You know, the new arrivals are mostly new wealth. Every once in a while, we find a branch of an old family that we really should have included. And this year we found a few Melons out there in Pittsburgh."
"Who's the youngest on the list this year?" "One of those. His name is Michael Carrier. But, you know, he goes back to the Melons on his mother's side." "And he is how old?" "He's twenty-five." "And how much is he worth?" "On the order of a couple of hundred million dollars. You should understand with people like the Melons, it is enormously hard to get a sense of just how much is out there. We think we're being conservative with that figure." "What about the oldest? Who's the oldest on the list?" "The oldest is a lady named Dorothy Stimson Bullit. And she's known out in the Washington State. She has some radio stations and real estate out there. The lady is ninety-four." "Do you get any mail response from this? People write in and have comments about it?" "We get people writing in saying, 'Gee, you missed so-and-so.' Once in a while, we get somebody who writes in and says, 'You missed me.' He's usually exaggerating." Harry Seneker, Senior Editor of Forbes magazine.
---
Lesson20
The Pentagon today called on the highly publicized withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan a sham. Moscow announced earlier this month that it would complete the withdrawal of 6,000 men from Afghanistan by the end of October. NPR's Allen Burlow has the story. "The head of the Defense Intelligence Agency, Lieutenant General Leonard Perutz said the Pentagon has developed clear and convincing evidence that the Soviet troop withdrawals are a deception. Perutz said the Soviets deliberately inserted additional tank and rifle regiments into Afghanistan for no reason other than to withdraw them. 'What the Soviets have done is to remove some unneeded units and to substitute others, so that the number of military useful troops in Afghanistan is basically unchanged.' Perutz said half of the Soviet units withdrawn were for air defense. Since the Afghani Mujahidin rebels have no air force, Perutz said, the Soviet withdrawals have no military significance. Perutz said the withdrawals were designed to enhance General Secretary Gorbachev's image at home and abroad. He said about 116,000 Soviet troops remain in Afghanistan. I'm Allen Burlow in Washington." South African's black miners have observed a one-day strike to mourn the death of one hundred and seventy-seven of their co-workers killed in a fire at the Kinross gold mine last month. Workers in other industries also participated in the symbolic action. Nigel Rench reports from Johannesburg. "More than a quarter of a million black
miners were on strike to protest their colleagues' deaths, about half the country's total of 600,000 gold and coal miners, costing the mining industry an estimated $4,000,000. The stay-away was total at the Kinross gold mine where last month's disaster occurred. Black miners stayed inside their barrack-like hostels. Reporters were barred from the mine. In central Johannesburg, a protest meeting was held by the Black National Union of Mineworkers which called the strike action. A union spokesman said miners had gathered not to mourn, but to commit themselves to liberation from apartheid and economic exploitation. White church leader, Bayers Nordea, told the crowd, 'The accident at Kinross need never have occurred, and the one hundred and seventy-seven men need not have died.' For National Public Radio, this is Nigel Rench in Johannesburg." The King of Saudi Arabia has removed Sheik Ahmed Zaki Yamani as Saudi Arabia's Oil Minister. Yamani had held the job for twenty-four years. Although it's been rumored for a few years that Yamani was out of favor with the King, his firing shocked the oil market. Yamani's replacement, Hicham Niza, is Saudi Arabia's Planning Minister. NPR's Barbara Mantell has details. "Oil traders here in New York on the mercantile exchange said they had no idea that Yamani was about to be fired, but they took it as a sign that world oil prices would start to rise. Yamani had been leading OPEC in a price war over the past ten months. Saudi Arabia, the largest producer in the cartel, had raised its production and created an oil glut. That lowered the price of oil by 50%. Analysts say Saudi Arabia's King Fahd's supposedly had enough of the price war and of Yamani. King Fahd has said that he would like to see the price of oil rise to about $18 a barrel. And at noon today, New York time, when Saudi Arabia's new Oil Minister called for an emergency OPEC meeting, traders at the mercantile exchange frantically bid up oil prices. They were betting that King Fahd and his new Minister were going to try to set a new policy of higher prices in motion. I'm Barbara Mantell in New York." Sheik Ahmed Zaki Yamani is generally regarded as the mastermind behind the Arab oil strategy of the 1970s. The man who introduced the word "petro-dollars" into our vocabulary, and who helped bring about one of the most dramatic shifts of international economic and political power in this century. NPR's Elizabeth Coulton has a report: Yamani was appointed to the post of Saudi Minister of Petroleum and Mineral Resources in 1962, and it was then he began leading the campaign to wrest control of Arab oil resources from foreign-owned companies. He was only thirty-two years old when he took over his country's oil ministry. But he was then among the few Saudis to have had higher western education, including, in his case, legal training at Harvard. Although Yamani was only a commoner in the Kingdom, some members of the royal family had begun to recognize the contribution such a technocrat could make to the Saudi government. Then crown prince Faisal, later the King, championed young
Yamani and gave him a clear mandate to do whatever necessary to keep his country's oil benefits home in Saudi Arabia. A natural diplomat, Yamani quickly became the unproclaimed leader of the Organization of Arab Petroleum Exporting Countries as well as the global cartel, OPEC. In November and December of 1973, Sheik Yamani toured western capitals to explain OPEC's radical policies, including why oil prices were going to go up by 70%. His announcement shocked the world and his name became an international household word. In London, one journalist wrote at the time that Sheik Yamani of Saudi Arabia was the most formidable eastern emissary to arrive in Europe since the Tartars swept into Russia or the Muslim hordes reached the walls of Vienna in the Middle Ages. In 1975, Yamani was the target when terrorists seized OPEC headquarters in Vienna and took the ministers hostage for several days. Ever since, then, Yamani surrounded himself with tough British bodyguards, and he kept his movements secret. Whenever he was seen abroad, he appeared as a superstar with his entourage. At home, in the royal kingdom however, his position was somewhat different. He remained a commoner and, consequently, always an outsider, useful to the monarchy only as a technocrat who could manage Saudi wealth for the true owners, the royal family. Sometimes, at OPEC meetings, he would have to fly back home to consult with the King before proceeding with negotiations. At such times, ministers from revolutionary member states, like Iran, would criticize Yamani for being only a lackey with no power to make decisions on his own. At the same time, many observers believe that Yamani's ouster yesterday was caused by King Fahd's irritation with Yamani's power base outside the kingdom. OPEC specialist, Yousef Ibrahim of the Wall Street Journal , say Yamani got caught between demands. Yamani is also said to be an extremely sensitive and religious man. He has been concerned that peoples of the world should try to understand each other. For example, in a conversation once with this reporter, Sheik Yamani said he believed all world leaders, like himself, should have at least an introductory course in social anthropology in order to be tolerant of other cultures. The cosmopolitan Sheik Yamani will be remembered as not only a wizard of oil economics, but perhaps more as a leading diplomat who brought the Arab world into the fore again, and changed the course of late twentieth century history. I'm Elizabeth Coulton in Washington. This week in the United States, the Senate voted to reject the $200,000,000 in additional aid to the Philippines. That money was approved by the House after President Corazon Aquion delivered an emotional address to a joint session of Congress during her visit a few weeks ago. In that speech, Aquion thanked those law-makers who, she said, had balanced US strategic interests against human concerns and turned US policy against Ferdinand Marcos. However, the conflict between strategic US defense interests and the everyday human needs of Filipinos remains at the heart of US-Philippine relations. It was a major issue in the Senate debate over increased economic aid when concerns were
raised about the Philippines' commitment to retaining two major US military bases. Nowhere is this conflict more tangible but in Philippine base towns themselves. NPR's Allen Burlow has a report: The frightening roar and fearful symmetry of an F-4 Phantom Fighter plane racing down the runway of Subic Bay Naval Station, are quickly lost in wonder as the 23-ton Phantom arches gracefully into the blue morning sky and disappears among the clouds of the South China Sea. The exact nature of today's mission is unknown. Perhaps it is a routine exercise, or training hours for a young pilot on one of the more than 200 daily flights from Subic Bay. It is impossible to say what thoughts occupy this pilot's mind, whether they pertain to the endless briefings on the strategic importance of Subic Bay, to the threat of communism, to the issues of nuclear war, or to the theoretical battles of superpower strategists who have him racing through the heavens away from the city of Olongapo. Olongapo, located about 50 miles northwest of Manila, is the city just outside the Sublic Bay Naval Station. Olongapo is where the Filipinos live and where the Americans come to play. In a way, Olongapo is a microcosm of the tensions in US-Philippine relations. Before the Subic Bay installation was built, Olongapo was little more than a fishing village. Today, the local economy benefits from tens of millions of dollars spent there annually. At the same time, the extraordinary and pervasive influence of Sbic Bay on the economy and culture of Olongapo and the Philippines as a whole has led many Filipinos to question whether the base should be allowed to stay. On any given day, there are 10,000 Americans at Subic Bay. They deal with the big issues like nuclear war and communism. But Philippine President Corazon Aquino must deal with more mundane matters, like the economic crisis her country faces in places like Olongapo and places like Pergasa. Pergasa is the barrel where the city of Olongapo dumps its garbage. It is also home for the city's most destitute. While Pergasa is separated from the Subic Bay Naval Station by only a few yards, a moat of raw sewage, and a fence of barbed wire, the concerns of its residents could not be more distant. Verhilio Fransi has lived here almost 10 years. He, his wife, and 8 children, occupy a one-room scrapwood shack. They live off the dump, collecting bottles and plastic cartons. "In one day, we get almost forty-five, fifty pesos, in one day." "And who does the work, you or all your children?" "All of us." "All of you together. You make forty-five pesos." "All of us in one day." "And do you also find food here or not?" "We got ... we found food, but it's canned foods." "Can you eat that food?" "Sometimes, but when it tastes no good, we throw it." Fransi says some days his children go hungry. The earnings he mentioned for his family of ten come to about $2 a day. In the local dialect, Pergasa means hope. Last
year, Verhilio Fransi found a solid gold bracelet in the dump. He sold it for about $10. In Pergasa, you breathe the unmistakable acrid smoke of smouldering garbage coughed up by fires that never go out. In Pergasa, there are thick clouds of flies, millions of flies humming their monotonous song of decay as they swarm about the mountains of garbage rising ten, fifteen, thirty feet into the air. Catolino Trancy, his wife and nine children live off the dump. Near the entrance to their mud-floor shack, there is a pan with eight pigs and an oil drum filled above its rim with blood-stained bones. I asked Mr. Trancy why he collected these. "There is a ... that skulls and bones." "And how much money do you get for skulls and bones?" "About seventy-five centavos a kilo." There is a dumpster in front of Trancy's house that says "Donated to Olongapo city by the US navy". Another sign bears one of the slogans of a former mayor. It reads, "It's forbidden to be lazy in this city." Some two hundred families live here in Pergasa. Chickens and dogs and rats can be seen running about. A little girl walks through the flattened cans and the bottle caps, dragging a plastic bag on a string or a sort of kite. She falls into the broken glass and ashes and doesn't cry. In the Pergasa, the houses are of wood, tin and cardboard boxes that say things like "This side up" or "Fragile". There's a house with a faded green "Merry Christmas" sign, another that says "God bless you". There is irony here for journalists, but there is no electricity or basic services. The US navy is in Olongapo because it is one of the best naturally protected harbors in the world. It is there because the Pentagon thinks Subic Bay is essential to protecting US security interests in Asia, the Pacific and the Indian Ocean. But whether the US will be allowed to remain in Olongapo will eventually be decided by Filipinos. In a national referendum promised by President Aquino, they will be asking what kind of friend the US had been, if the bases serve Philippines' security interests as well as very real human needs of their country, if the income from the base offsets the damage done to the structure of Philippine society and to Philippine sovereignty. As this debate heats up, the United States faces a difficult task in convincing people that its concerns extend beyond global issues of security down to the very real everyday problems faced by ordinary Filipinos. I'm Allen Burlow reporting.
---
Lesson21
A committee of scientists is calling on President Reagan to launch a billion-dollar information campaign to keep the AIDS epidemic from spreading to catastrophic proportions. The National Academy of Sciences convened the panel which says education efforts must be used because effective treatment and a vaccine appear to be years away. The report urges the establishment of a new federal office to head a nationwide education effort as well as an advisory commission for research and education. The scientists say the White House should lead an action campaign the
way it has led a new crackdown on illegal drugs. Gunmen kidnapped a French television photographer today as he drove from the Christian east to the Muslim western sector of Beirut. Jean Marc Srucie is the 9th French National missing and presumed abducted in Beirut. Two women were in the car with him but were released. No one has claimed responsibility. An Israeli court has indicted a retired auto worker, alleging he was a Nazi death camp worker known as "Ivan the Terrible". Jam Demjanjuk is in jail in Israel after being extradited and maintains his is a case of mistaken identity. The BBC's Paul Reynolds has more in this report from Jerusalem. "The indictment charges Demjanjuk with crimes against the Jewish people, against humanity, and with war crimes. He's said to have been responsible for herding Jews into the gas chambers and often stabbed or whipped flesh from them as they went in. It's said that he personally turned on the motors to discharge the poison gas. The state of Israel will be calling eight former Treblinka inmates and an SS guard who will identify Demjanjuk as "Ivan the Terrible". Demjanjuk's defense, though, will be quite simple. He'll say he's somebody else. His American lawyer has been seeking out other camp survivors who can't support the identification, and the whole trial will resolve around this question. Demjanjuk's trial is expected to begin at the end of the year and could take as long as six months. Today, a panel of the nation's leading scientists and physicians issued a major review of the government's response to the AIDS epidemic. The panel was convened by the National Academy of Sciences. The scientists called for massive increases in funding for AIDS research and education. They also urged President Reagan to lead the fight against disease. NPR's Richard Harris has the story: Six months ago, the Academy decided that AIDS was so serious a problem that they needed to review that nation's fight against the disease. They chose Nobel laureate, David Baltimore to head their panel and enlisted the cooperative of leading health researchers. The Academy has no control over the federal budget, but they have considerable prestige. And they banked on that prestige today when they called for a billion dollars a year for AIDS research by 1990. That translates into a four-fold increase in funding over the next three years. Today, Chairman David Baltimore said the country should spend another billion dollars a year for AIDS education. "We are saying that a program that is at all responsive to the needs of the situation will cost billion dollars. And we are not specifying where that billion dollars should come from because it's made up of whole lot of little pieces," pieces that should be shared by local government and private industry. The panel said education efforts so far have been, as they put it, "woefully inadequate", inadequate because officials have spent 1/8 as much money as they should have, and inadequate, they said, because health officials have been too squeamish to talk about sex or to promote the
use of condoms. Baltimore said these attitudes must change now, because the AIDS epidemic is at critical point. "The virus has now spread widely as far as we know outside of the high-risk groups. We are afraid, in fact there is perfectly good evidence, that such spread is possible, and are calling for people to take precautions in situations where they may not have though they were at risk." Baltimore said that anyone who has sexual relations with more than one partner should take precautions against exposure to the AIDS virus. The panel said condoms are one way to avoid infection. The report does not predict that AIDS will spread rapidly by heterosexual contact in the next five years, but recurring theme in the report is that now is the time to prevent the epidemic from becoming even worse. Already more than 25,000 Americans have been diagnosed with AIDS. Baltimore called on President Reagan to declare war on AIDS the way he declared war on illegal drugs. "We are talking about President taking that form of leadership, and it's clear that when the President speaks out on an issue in such forceful terms, that the whole nation sees it in the different way." The National Academy report, like the Surgeon General's recommendations last week, gives the president a convenient way to take on AIDS as an issue. Both reports stress that AIDS is not just a disease that can infect gay men and drug abusers. They say now AIDS is a sexually transmitted disease that can affect anyone. In Washington this is Richard Harris. Hard Choices is a low-budget film that has been well received by many critics this past summer, but that does not make it a runaway hit. In fact, its thirty-four-year-old producer, Robert Michaelson, has been found at the film's openings passing out fliers in front of the theaters. Critic Bob Mondello says he shouldn't have to do that. In a perfect world, little movies about Tennessee kids who get caught on the wrong side of the law would get the publicity they need, and film companies would stop hyping pre-sold blockbusters about psychotic cops. This is not, however, a perfect world. And I don't want to imply that Hard Choices is a perfect movie, either. But it's so much more involving and suspenseful and just plain interesting than most of the junk Hollywood putsout that it makes you want to do hand flips. It's the story of a rural sixteen-year-old, named Bobby, played winningly by new comer Gary McCleary, who goes along for the ride one evening with his hell-raising older brothers. When they decide to rob a local pharmacy, Bobby stays out in the truck, and that's where he is when one of his brothers panics and kills a policeman. Bobby's soon on the run with his brothers, and soon in jail. Now, up to this point, this could be any of a dozen rebel-rousing teen movies, but Bobby's not your average teen protagonist. He's a sweet kid, so innocent in fact, that he can't even lie to his mother, who's a bit innocent herself. "Bobby, how come everybody says you boys took drugs? I know you wasn't sick." "Cause it's true. We did."
Now, talking about the innocence of a kid who takes drugs may seem a little odd, but what made Hard Choices such a compelling movie is that it doesn't settle for easy answers. Having Bobby sit in jail is clearly not in anyone's best interests. So when his case is taken by Laura, a young social worker played by Margaret Clenk, you're mightily relieved. Unfortunately this kid isn't very lucky in the folks who take a shine to him. Clenk, who's probably best known as Edwena Louis in the soap opera "One Life to Live", makes Laura a tired activist who's so won over by Bobby's lopsided grin and optimism, she's soon doing something supremely dumb: pointing pistol at the Sheriff. Woman: Do you have a gun, Bobby? Bobby: It's on the wall. Woman: Go get it. Bobby: Wait a minute. Woman: Go get the gun! Man: Bobby, don't do it. You're making a big mistake. I'm going to have to come and get you. Woman: Don't you want to be free? Since he's being tried as an adult, that is a hard choice. Now, this may remind you of a real life story recently in which a lawyer in Tennessee fell in love with her client and helped him escape, or it may just generally remind you of real life. One of the best things about Hard Choices is that everything in it seems so utterly natural. The supporting cast, for instance, which includes Secaucus Seven director, John Sales. It's generally terrific, which you could also say about Rick King's casually suspenseful direction. He keeps you just a little off balance, which is wonderful. Unfortunately, his movie seems to have its Hollywood's sponsors a little off balance, too. Despite reviews that called the sleeper of the summer, Lorimar Pictures can't seem to get handle on how to sell it. And frankly, with major media advertising costing what it does, if a film can't be described in a phrase of six words or less, like "crime is the disease, cobra's the cure". Tuisel Town often has to throw up its hands. The thing is that Hard Choices is just what Hollywood needs right now. With idiotic fantasies about talking ducks costing as much as $40,000,000, this is practically the definitive small movie, made for what most Hollywood epics spend on catering. I don't want to oversell it. It's certainly not perfect. But it sure makes the adrenaline flow. And when you take its budget into account, it's nothing less than amazing. If the studios can't figure out how to make a picture like this work, they deserve disasters like Howard the Duck . The problem is, if you want to see it, you may have to search for Hard Choices because it's not being released all at once. There are only a few prints. But it's worth asking your local theater owner to book. With summer hold-overs as the alternative, it makes your September movie going an easy choice. Hard Choices opens tomorrow in Chicago and Minneapolis. Next weekend in San Francisco and at the Boston Film Festival. Bob Mondello was the film critic for "All Things Considered".
---
Lesson22
The Treasury Department announced today that it is lowering the guaranteed interest rate on some US savings bonds. NPR's Barbara Mantell reports that the 1.5 point decline to 6% came as no surprise to investors. "The Treasury said it is lowering the rate on savings bonds to bring it in line with other market interest rates which have been falling all year. For instance, money market mutual funds are now yielding just over 5%; five-year treasury notes are trading at about 6.5%. So the government has been paying a premium to people buying savings bonds, and it's turned out to be an expensive way to finance the public debt. The relatively generous 7.5% rate on the bonds have made them very popular in the past few months. Since the beginning of August, sales have been about double the usual pace. And this week, the rush to buy savings bonds intensified because of reports that the Treasury was going to cut the rate any day, and people wanted to lock in the old rate. Savings bonds bought before tomorrow, the day the cut goes into effect, will still yield 7.5% I'm Barbara Mantell in New York." After a meeting today of southern Africa's front line states, Zambian President Kenneth Kaunda said a number of front line leaders hold South Africa directly responsible for the plane crash that killed Mozambique President Samora Machel. Kaunda said there was circumstantial evidence linking South Africa to the crash, but he didn't say what that evidence was. He said it's up to the Pretoria government to prove to the contrary. Official Soviet radio said today all clues point to Soviet-South African complicity in the death of Machel. President Reagan today named a black career diplomat to be US Ambassador to South Africa. Edward Perkins, now Ambassador to Liberia, would succeed retiring Ambassador Herman Nickel. NPR's Phyllis Crockett has more: "Perkins is the third man President Reagan has considered in three months in his attempt to appoint a black to this sensitive post. North Carolina businessman, Robert Brown, turned down the job after questions were raised about his business dealings while he served in the Nixon Administration. Then Terrance Todman, Ambassador to Denmark, turned down the job, apparently because he disagrees with the Reagan Administration policy towards South Africa. Perkins has been a foreign service officer for twenty-eight years. He's fifty-eight years old and has served in Taiwan, Thailand, Ghana and at the State Department before becoming Deputy Chief of the US Embassy in Liberia in 1981. He became Ambassador in 1985. Black and white South Africans as well as many in this country have said that naming a black ambassador is meaningless as long as US policy toward the white-ruled government remains the same. I'm Phyllis Crockett in Washington."
President Reagan today nominated a career foreign service officer to become the first black US ambassador to South Africa. The long expected move comes as the Senate get set to vote tomorrow on overriding President Reagan's veto of a bill that would impose more economic sanctions on South Africa. The newly named envoy is Edward Perkins. He is now the American Ambassador to the west African nation of Liberia. NPR's Phyllis Crockett has a report: It's been three months since President Reagan first indicated his desire to appoint a black to this sensitive post. Perkins is the President's third choice. In July, the President had planned to name a black ambassador during a televised speech on South Africa. But the man under consideration, businessman and former Nixon-aide Robert Brown, withdrew his name after questions were raised about his business dealings. Then, the administration's next choice, Terrence Todman, Ambassador to Denmark, turned down the job, apparently because he disagrees with the Reagan Administration policy towards South Africa. In contrast to the President's plan to name his first choice in a national speech, today's announcement came with no fanfare. There was no news conference, no press briefing, no opportunity for questions today. Instead, a notice was handed out to reporters at the White House that Perkins was the President's choice. Apparently, the low key announcement was a response to the earlier embarrassment of some top White House officials who felt the first two names became public before adequate scrutiny. They expect Perkins to be easily confirmed by the Senate. Perkins has been a foreign service officer for twenty-eight years. He has served in Taiwan, Thailand, Ghana and in Washington, D.C. In 1981, he became the 2nd in command at the US Embassy in Liberia. In 1985, he became Ambassador. He is fifty-eight years old. His wife is Chinese. They have two children. When President Reagan first indicated his intention to appoint a black ambassador, blacks and whites in South Africa said that naming a black will make little difference if US policy remains the same. The Perkins announcement comes one day after President Reagan offered to impose strong sanctions against the South African government if Congress drops its stronger sanctions. Secretary of State, George Shultz, told Republican senators today that a vote to override the President's veto of a sanctions bill would undermine his negotiating position in next month's summit meeting with Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev. The House overrode the veto yesterday. The Senate is expected to take it up tomorrow. I'm Phyllis Crockett in Washington. Fifty years ago, British aviator Beryl Markham became the first person to fly alone across the Atlantic Ocean, from east to west. Her achievement was marred, though, as were many of her accomplishments. Markham had set out to fly from London to New York. She ended up flying from London to Nova Scotia. That flight and other aspects of her extraordinary life are told in Markham's book West with the Night . This week, many public television stations
will broadcast a documentary about Markham called "World without Walls". NPR's Susan Stanberg tells Beryl Markham's story. New York City, September 6th, 1936, a ticker-tape parade, and Mayor Fiorello LaGuardia greeting a tall, blond English woman who, just the day before, had completed a 21-hour-and-25-minute flight across the Atlantic, Ebbingdon, England to a nameless swamp, non-stop. "Miss Markham, may I, on behalf of the city of New York, extend to you, a sincere welcome and our congratulations on your splendid flight across the ocean." "Thank you so much. I'm so happy to be here. Thank you so much." Nine years after Lindbergh, and going in the other direction, his Spirit of Saint Louis, soloed New York to Paris, Beryl Markham, thirty-four years old, had flown seventeen of the twenty-one and a half hours in fog and darkness, with no fuel gauge, no radio, no idea where she was most of the time, to crash land, after the engine of her monoplane died in a bog on Cape Breton Island, Nova Scotia. The next day, she was being cheered in New York. "It was a hard battle against the elements above the ocean, fog and storm, but pluck and endurance crowned one of the most grueling flights on record." "I am so pleased to have got here; I only wish I could come in my own machine." "And now, onto a New York hotel, to be interviewed by a movie waker, Mrs. Markham, just what were you thinking about while flying through all that fog and storm?" "Well, my one thought and ambition was to get to America." "When above the sea, what did you eat or drink?" "I didn't have anything until the last half hour when I had a taste of brandy." "Just one?" "No, two, I'm afraid." Aviation was very young then. Every single day without fail, there were two or three articles in the newspapers about people being killed in aircraft. It was completely new sport. Mary Lovell has just completed a biography of Beryl Markham. The book will be published next spring. The engines were not very reliable. All she had was a compass and some kind of direction-finding equipment that didn't work very well. She really didn't know where she was for a long time. She had no idea how far off the coast she was, whether her fuel would last. I think the one time in her life she has been frightened was then. For most of her eighty-three years, Beryl Markham was indeed fearless. As a child growing up in Africa, she faced down a marauding lion. As a trainer, she forced high-strung racehorses to obey her. As an old woman, she drove her car through a machine gun fire during an attempted coup in Kenya. She wanted to keep a luncheon date. It was simply her nature to confront danger. "There's a coolness to her. She's not a very trusting person." Writer Judith Theuman. "I think any person who's lived by her wits would probably have developed that coolness. Look at the astronauts. I mean, it's a quality that you see it in fliers. You see it in sailors, or you see it in hunters, and Beryl was of that stamp." There were other interpretations of Markham's coolness. Some said she lacked the
sense to be afraid. People often said nasty things about Beryl Markham, especially other women. It's easy to figure out why. "She was beautiful. She was very seductive. She was well born. And she was strong and ambitious and fearless and smart. So, you know, it's a lot to take." Ironically, recognition did come to Beryl Markham, but only in the last years of her life. Since West with the Night was reissued three years ago, it's sold briskly. There are 300,000 copies in print now, and royalties from the book gave much needed financial security. More recognition will come with the showing on public television this week, of the documentary about her. More recognitions still, when Mary Lovell's biography comes out next spring. And another biography is in the work for publication in a few years. So the story of the woman who flew west on that difficult, dangerous night in 1936 will be told and re-told. Through the darkness, wedged between extra fuel tanks that had been fitted into the cabin for the long journey, her small plane bucking fog and storms and headwinds, the Atlantic Ocean black beneath her, Beryl Markham flew west with the night, completely alone. "You can live a lifetime and, at the end of it, know more about other people than you know about yourself. You learn to watch other people, but you never watch yourself because you strive against loneliness. If you read a book or shuffle a deck of cards, or care for a dog, you are avoiding yourself. The abhorrence of loneliness is as natural as wanting to live at all. If it were otherwise, men would never have bothered to make an alphabet, nor to have fashioned words out of what were only animal sounds, nor to have crossed continents, each man to see what the other looked like. Being alone in an aeroplane, for even so short a time as a night and a day, irrevocably alone, with nothing to observe but your instruments and your own hands in semi-darkness. Nothing to contemplate but the size of your small courage. Nothing to wonder about but the beliefs, the faces and hopes rooted in your mind. Such an experience can be as startling as the first awareness of stranger walking by your side at night. You are the stranger." Beryl Markham died in Kenya this past August. She was eighty-three. Her ashes were scattered from a light aircraft over the hills at Inguro—her beloved childhood home. In Washington, I'm Susan Stanberg.
---
Lesson23
Soviet officials have confirmed that a crippled nuclear submarine sank in the Atlantic early today. US officials believe the sub carried at least sixteen nuclear missiles. Explosion and fire on the vessel last Friday killed three crewmen. The rest of the crew was successfully evacuated before the vessel sank. Soviet officials say no radiation leaked in the air or the ocean. It's unclear what may have caused the explosion that led to the sinking.
A news agency in Beirut released a videotape today with pleas from three Frenchmen held for more than a year by the Islamic Jihad. Each hostage called on the French government to change its policy in the Middle East. Melody Walker reports from Paris. "During the twenty-eight-minute recording, the three hostages criticized the French government for failing to gain their release, and said they had the impression they were being forgotten. Taking turns reading prepared texts, the two diplomats and one journalist looked physically exhausted and emaciated. Declaring that he was at the end of his rope, one of the hostages said that the government forgot about the remaining hostages after the release of two Frenchmen in June. A total of seven French citizens are currently held hostage in Lebanon. A communiqué from the Islamic Jihad which accompanied the video cassette calls on France to negotiate the release of seventeen Shi'ite prisoners jailed in Kuwait. The French Minister for Foreign Affairs did not comment on the content of the video cassette or the demands, but said tonight that the government was doing everything possible to free the hostages. For National Public Radio, this is Melody Walker in Paris." Skies are clearing over Oklahoma where heavy rains have produced what's being called "the worst flooding in the history of that state." Thousands of people began returning to their homes and officials began the task of assessing the damage. Floods have caused millions of dollars in damage, but specific estimates may not come until tomorrow when clean-up operations are expected to start. Tonight, a Soviet nuclear submarine is on the bottom of the Atlantic Ocean, damaged three days ago by a fire on board. Officials in Washington and Moscow confirmed this morning's sinking. Officials in both countries also said the loss of the vessel presents no atomic threat despite the presence of both nuclear missiles and a nuclear power reactor on the submarine. NPR's Daivd Malthus has a report: Pentagon officials say the crippled Soviet submarine, which normally carries sixteen nuclear missiles, each with two warheads, went down just before dawn six hundred and eighty miles northeast of Bermuda. The Soviets put the precise time of sinking at 4:03 am eastern time, and Moscow says there was no further loss of life aside from the three crewmen killed when a fire broke out Friday. American surveillance planes observed that towing efforts were halted shortly after midnight. About three hours later, the remaining crew members were observed abandoning ship in an orderly and planned fashion, according to American officials. The crew was rescued from life rafts by five Soviet surface ships in the area. Pentagon officials say a US ocean-going tugboat was nearby and ready to assist, but the Soviets refused any help. Pentagon sources do not rule out the possibility that the Soviets scuttled their sub once it became clear that leaks could not be controlled. The Soviets have not explained the cause of the damage to the ship, but Pentagon officials say there was an explosion in one of the missile tubes that blew a big hole in the deck. Vice Admiral Powell Carter describes the damage this way:
"You're talking about a structure that's enormously strong up there. It's like, each of those missile tube doors that shuts is just like a safe vault. And then it shuts and locks with a big rotating ring, and that's been torn completely loose and bent like a pretzel back. So the force of the explosion was enormous." While Pentagon officials say they don't know what caused the missile tube explosion, they point out that Soviet missiles use highly volatile liquid fuel, and a fuel leak could have caused the eruption. Again, Admiral Carter: "These liquid fuel systems are very, very dangerous; they're very unstable. That's why, very early in our missile program as pushing a leading edge of technology, we moved to solid fuel missiles, early on just for that fact, because liquid fuel is extremely dangerous." Admiral Carter said it was possible the nuclear warheads on top of the missile burned in the fire, or were thrown out into the water and sunk to the bottom 18,000 feet below. He said the other missiles and warheads might have been damaged by pressure as the sub sank, but there was no chance of a nuclear detonation or serious radiation leakage. The submarine's nuclear reactors, officials say, are self-contained in what amounts to rust-proof metal vaults, and the Soviet say the reactors were shut down prior to sinking. US officials say preliminary tests of the air and sea in the area have produced no signs of radioactive release. Pentagon officials say the US will not make any attempt to recover the Soviet sub. "It's Soviet property," says the Navy. Retired submarine Captain James Bush of the Center for Defense Information says a salvage effort just isn't warranted in this case with the submarine that was designed in the 1960s. "It's an old submarine with old missiles. I don't know that we would consider it worthwhile to have them to look at for the amount of money involved. Now, it would probably be worthwhile if we could, get their communications equipment and their coding equipment, their key lists, and things like that to decode messages. But I'm sure that the Soviets, with the time that they had prior to the submarine sinking, should have gotten all of that material off." Pentagon officials say the sub loss should not be a serious setback for the Soviets, but some analysts disagree. Pentagon consultant Norman Freedman says the Soviets have to be worried about liquid fueled missiles on other subs. "These things are time bombs," Freeman says. "They should all be called in and checked out." I'm David Malthus in Washington. "We think that we have solved this most venerable and grand of geographic mysteries." With those words, Joseph Judge of National Geographic magazine announced a major discovery in American history—the true spot where Christopher Columbus first landed in the new world. And the Geographic 's declaration upsets the orthodox assertions of nearly every American history textbook. NPR's Frank Browning has this story. The orthodox explanation of where Columbus first landed was carved in textbook
stone more than forty years ago by the dean of Columbus historians, Samuel Elliot Morrison. Morrison declared incontrovertible the evidence that Columbus first set foot on Watling Island in the eastern Bahamas. But if the question were closed for Professor Morrison, now dead, it was not for numerous other students on nautical history. For the last five years, the National Geographic 's Joseph Judge, has dispatched teams of historians, oceanographers, archaeologists and translators to find the true location and thereby to set straight the first footsteps of the American saga. "The famous fleet of Columbus—the Nina, the Pinta and the Santa Maria—made its first landfall and its landing in the new world in 1492 at a small island in the eastern Bahamas, named today, Samana Cay." The basic problem in identifying Columbus' landing point, which he named San Salvador in 1492, is that he left no clear markings. Moreover, the log of Columbus' voyage now exists only in a transcription made by the Spaniard Bartolomay de las Casas, and many of the descriptions are either vague or use archaic terminology. Professor Morrison had based has conclusions on a straightforward reading of the log. But he took no account of how Columbus' route would have been affected by constant ocean currents and winds. When the Geographic team took the same data and then adjusted them for the effect of wind and current, they arrived at Samana Cay, to the southeast of Watling Island. Then to collaborate their findings, they went to points further down on Columbus' voyage, then backtracked according to the log notations, and again found that they landed not on Professor Morrison's Watling Island, but on Samana Cay. Once on Samana, the team then returned to Columbus' log, to compare what they saw to Columbus' own visual description, recounted here by writer Judge in a film clip: "You need sediments on a ridge behind the beach. Here is the beach, right here. You need a lagoon with a very narrow entrance and that you have there. You need a piece of land shaped like an island that is not, and that you have there. In other words, every piece of geography that you're seeing before your eyes in this island is described in the Columbus' log." Moreover, Judge's team found archaeological traces of a settlement Columbus had mentioned finding on the actual island. So far, it is too early to know how the Geographic 's discoveries will affect the literature of professional history. But for those who worry about what may become of the site in an age of overnight historical theme parks, Bahamian Minister of Education, Paul Adderly, who attended the press conference, assured questioners that the island will be safe. In Washington, I'm Frank Browning reporting.
---
Lesson24
A bomb exploded early today in a mid-town Manhattan abortion clinic, slightly injuring two passers-by, but it did not stop those at the center from performing abortions later in the day. The bombing caused about $10,000 in damage. Police say
several phone calls to the bomb squad warned of the attack, but no one has claimed responsibility. America's trade deficit grew at a slower pace again last month. The gap between imports and exports expanded by $12,500,000,000 in September, $2,000,000,000 less than the August deficit increase. It's the second straight monthly decline in the growth of the trade deficit. Commerce Department says the figure showed that the administration's policy of lowering the dollar may be paying off. The administration has also tried with mixed success, to persuade allies with big trade surpluses to stimulate their economies to expand export markets for US goods. There are new details today on Austrian President Kurt Waldheim's involvement in the German army during WWII. The full text of the 1947 Yugoslav indictment of Waldheim for war crimes was made public. NPR's Mike Shuster has details. "The indictment charges Waldheim with participating in the planning of German reprisals against Yugoslavian citizens in 1944 and 1945. At the time, Waldheim was a lieutenant in a German Intelligence unit, and the indictment says Waldheim helped plan attacks that resulted in the burning of at least twenty villages and the execution of hundreds of Yugoslavian citizens. It has been known that Waldheim had been indicted in Yugoslavia almost forty years ago. But the specifics of the indictment were not known until today. Yesterday, Waldheim, through a spokesman, admitted that he had been part of a unit that carried out a massacre in Yugoslavia in 1942. But Waldheim denied a Washington Post report today that the Yugoslav and Soviet governments had used the file on Waldheim to blackmail him into becoming a communist agent. The Post quotes intelligence sources in Yugoslavia as saying the blackmail had been successful. This is Mike Shuster in New York." More important details emerged today about the case of Austrian President Kurt Waldheim's involvement it the German army during WWII. In 1947, the former United Nations Secretary General was indicted in Yugoslavia for war crimes. Today, the full text of that indictment became available. Also today, reports that Yugoslavia and that Soviet Union may have blackmailed Waldheim during his diplomatic career. NPR's Mike Shuster has a report. Until now, it has been known that Yugoslavia indicted Waldheim forty years ago for war crimes, for murder and massacres in the shooting of hostages. But until today, the specific crimes Waldheim was accused of were not known, nor was it known what these accusations were based on. The indictment, a translation of which was released today by the Simon Wiesenfeld Center in the United States, specifies at least a score of villages in Yugoslavia that were targeted by the German army for reprisals in 1944 and 1945. The indictment, according to Mark Weitzman, a spokesman for the Wiesenfeld Center, charges that Waldheim actually participated in the planning for
those reprisals. "They lay a list of twenty-one villages and towns directly there. And I'll quote. Many more similar crimes can be cited: May 1944, village was burned; Macednia, September-October '44, shot civilians in many villages. Even more detailed: village of Smola where four persons were shot; Garbervo, twenty-four houses burned, two people shot." In 1944 and 45, the German army undertook a series of reprisals in the Yugoslav regions of Basnia, Mecedonia and Montenegro in retaliation for partisan attacks on German army units. The reprisals usually involved the execution of local civilians: ten Yugoslavians for each German killed and the torching of villages. The indictment of Waldheim makes the argument that Hitler ordered the policy of reprisal in the Balkans, but that all the details—the quota of hostages taken, the specific arrests and executions, the specific villages burned—were for the local German army intelligence units to work out. Waldheim was a lieutenant in one of those units. The indictment does not specify his presence, but there's no question about it, issuing responsibility to him, I mean, just to sum up the indictment, and I'll read: "On the basis of all that has been set forth, the state commission confirms that Lieutenant Kurt Waldheim is a war criminal responsible for the war crimes described and assessed above." Throughout his campaign last spring for the Austrian Presidency, Waldheim maintained that he was only a supply officer and an interpreter in his unit in the Balkans. But yesterday through a spokesman, Waldheim admitted that he was connected with a unit that carried out a massacre in Yugoslavia in 1942. The spokesman did not address the allegations in the indictment made public today. The Washington Post reported today that the Yugoslav and Soviet governments may have used the indictment and the investigative file it was based on to blackmail Waldheim into becoming a communist agent. The Post quotes former Yugoslav intelligence and government officials as saying they were involved in an effort to blackmail Waldheim in 1948. One former official, according to the Post , says that Moscow informed the Yugoslav government in 1948 that Waldheim had been recruited. The Post report also suggests that the dossier, an indictment of Waldheim, might have been complied with the sole aim of comprising him, not prosecuting him. Waldheim was never tried for war crimes. A spokesman for Waldheim denied that he had ever been reproached for communist recruitment. Under some pressure from Congress, there has been a review of the Waldheim case at the Justice Department for several months. Today, Attorney General Meese said that if Waldheim were to express a desire to visit the US, the details of his case that emerged today would be additional facts in the government's review of the whole matter. This is Mike Shuster in New York. There's been yet another merger in the airline industry. The Delta, the sixth largest carrier in the United States, will join wings with Western, which ranks ninth. By one standard, that will create the nation's third largest airline. The merger, agreed to by
Western yesterday, makes sense, according to Con Hitchcock of the Aviation Consumer Action Project. "The reason that the merger makes sense for a company like Delta is that Delta's based primarily in eastern United States, with a hub in Atlanta and some in Cincinnati and Dallas and Fort Worth. But it doesn't really have a western presence. Western is based in Salt Lake City and has also got a lot of presence in Los Angeles. And if you can merge the two together successfully, there's the chance you'll have a successful large carrier that can compete with United and American and other companies that are bigger than Delta." "What about the urge to merge? We've had an incredibly large number of mergers just in the last six months or so." "There's feeling in some sectors of the airline industry that if you want to be a survivor, if you want to be around, you have to get bigger. You have to get into a number of markets, and the easy way to do that is to buy off your competitors rather than try to expand from within. And in some senses, it is easier to go out and raise the money rather than do things like try to get into the congested airports. You've got airports like Chicago and Denver and Los Angeles that are fairly crowded, that it's just difficult to go in a big way and establish yourself and attract a lot of customers. And it's easier to go out and buy a company with an established market position than try to work your way up from ground zero." "What about a time factor? Is there any reason we're seeing all these merges now? Deregulation's been with us since 1978. Why now?" "I think there are a couple of reasons why there are so many airline merges now. First of all, there's sort of a herd mentality. When United picked up Pan Am's Pacific routes earlier this year, that set off a ripple effect. Northwest said, well, we're going to buy Republic in order to get bigger and compete, TWA Ozark, etc. etc." There really is a wave. Secondly, there's the perception in the industry that the Department of Transportation which has to approve airline mergers, is more lenient than the Justice Department would be. But D.O.T. only has that authority for another two years. And there's concern that if you don't do it now, the Justice Department may stop you if you try a couple years from now. The third reason is related to the tax bill. The tax bill that's pending in Congress will take away some of the benefits that make mergers easy to finance, staring on January 1st. So I think you're going to see a number of mergers in a lot of other industries as well between now and December 31st. "When deregulation came into being, there was a lot of talk that what would happen is, you would have four or five major airlines, a number of very successful regional airlines and the commuters. It seems as though that trend is here." "We seem to be headed in that direction, and it's unfortunate. I mean, deregulation was supposed to be more airlines competing for consumers' business, not fewer. There is inevitably …" "Well, there are more." "There are more, but the big ones are getting bigger. And there are some advantages in the sense that you can travel from one city to another on a singer airline without having to change lines and that sort of thing. But the drawback is the industry shrinks,
is that you have fewer mavericks, or fewer airlines that might say, 'Gee, let's start a price war to raise some more traffic.' It can get very comfortable very quickly, and I'm not sure that's in the consumer's interest in the long term." "Thanks very much. Con Hitchcock of the Aviation Consumer Action Project."
---
Lesson25
US officials are denying any official American connection with a plane Nicaragua says it shot down over the weekend. The Sandinista government says three Americans were killed and a fourth, identified as Eugene Hasenfus of Marinette, Wisconsin, was captured. Nicaragua says Hasenfus identified himself as a US military advisor. But Secretary of State George Shultz said the transport which allegedly was carrying weapons to contra rebels was sponsored by a private American group, and that none of the people on board the plane were with US military intelligence operations. A spokesman for Austrian President Kurt Waldheim says Waldheim now says he was in Cozara, Yugoslavia during the 1942 Nazi massacre. But this does not in any way make him a war criminal. Gerald Christian was responding to a story in the Washington Post today in which he was quoted as saying that after additional research, Waldheim had determined that he served as a supply officer in Coraza. Christian says that Waldheim was not a combatant in the pacification campaign, which resulted in the death of thousands of people. Reacting to the latest disclosure, Attorney General Edward Meese said this will be additional information that we will consider in making a decision on whether to bar Waldheim from the United States. South Africa reacted today to allegations that it is to blame for the plane crash that killed Mozambique President, Samora Machel. Defense Minister, Magnis Balong said South Africa is not involved in the accident in any way. He said African leaders like Zambian President Kenneth Kaunda, are spreading propaganda, and Balong warned that they are playing what he called "a dangerous game". Not our plane, not our advisor. Denials in Washington today about an American and his aircraft shot down this weekend in Nicaragua. The Sandinistas said yesterday their government troops shot down a transport plane, killing three Americans and capturing a fourth. The Nicaraguans charge that the plane was on CIA mission. They say the aircraft was to ferry supplies to US-backed contra rebels in southern Nicaragua. Today, Reagan Administration officials denied the plane was an American military aircraft, or that the survivor was a US military advisor. NPR's Richard Gonzalez reports. The Nicaraguan government identified the surviving crew member as Eugene
Hasenfus, and said the man had identified himself as a US military advisor in nearby El Salvador. But relatives in Wisconsin said the man's name is Eugene Hasenfus, and that he is an ex-marine who had been working for a Florida air freight company since this summer. Hasenfus' wife, Sally, was contacted, but she declined to say whether she had been notified by US officials and would not say anything more about her husband's activities. Secretary of State George Shultz said today the plane had been hired by private citizens who had no connection to the US government. "The people involved were not from our military, not from any US government agency, and CIA included. So it's ... these are private citizens, and it's not a governmental operation." Meanwhile, on Capitol Hill, there were cautious reactions to the reports of the downed aircraft. Republican Senator David Durenberger of Minnesota, Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, said the CIA had assured him that the plane, its pilots and cargo had no connection to US government efforts to support the contras. But Democratic Senator Patrick Leahy of Vermont said he doubts the administration is telling everything it knows about the plane. "If Americans are down there, it stretches credulity for anybody to think that they could be operating out of either Costa Rica or Honduras without the knowledge of US authorities." There are several private groups who have raised funds to send supplies and military trainers to the contras. One of the most active groups, Civilian Material Assistance, which has been involved in supply flights to the contras in the past, denied any connection to this latest incident. Another group, the US Council for World Freedom led by retired General John Singlaub has sent the contras boats, clothing and weapons. Singlaub could not be reached for comment today. US citizens working with the contras commonly refer to themselves as US advisors. Congress has approved $100,000,000 in military and non-lethal aid to the contras, but barred direct US military support, including the presence of US advisors on Nicaragua soil. Here in Washington, a spokesman for the Nicaraguan Embassy, Francisco Cambbe, said his government sees no difference between congressionally approved aid to the contras and privately funded assistance. "The administration of the United States is actively involved in promoting and encouraging North American citizens to become involved in this dirty war against Nicaragua. This past Sunday General Singlaub on '60 Minutes' stated clearly that his so-called private operation was being carried out with the support and encouragement of the White House. So, therefore, there is no distinction whatsoever." At a news conference today for four Americans engaged in a fast and protest of the administration's support for the contras, Democratic Senator John Carry of Massachusetts said, many questions about the downed plane still remain unanswered.
"If it's an American plane, with Americans on board, with an American military advisor, carrying weapons and war supplies that originated in this country, which is somehow over Nicaraguan air space, to the degree that it landed in Nicaraguan space, that ought to be of serious concern to the people of this country." Carry said more information is needed to determine whether the plane was a privately-funded effort, and to what degree such activities violate international law. I'm Richard Gonzalez in Washington. Goblins, ghosts, princes and princesses. This is the way many people are dressing this Halloween. But in some places, Halloween revellers are decked out more aggressively, arming themselves with what pass for the guns of modern warfare. More from NPR's Frank Browing. Just outside Baltimore on Harford Road, there's a gun shop that's doing a booming business this Halloween. They've got uzzies, M-16s, Thompson submachine guns, all made from plastic. Replicas, which police say, are so accurately crafted that on a dark night they easily pass for the real thing. Patrick Lauchlin, who works at the shop and also sells real guns, says they've been hot items for tonight's festivities. "This year, assault rifles, in the Rambo mode, like, especially the M-16 Colt, you know, and of course the Thompson's a classic for the Bonnie and Clyde, in, you know, twenties era, and I just rented three of the western rigs with the western type of single action army Colt revolver for a car dealer who's dressing his people up for a sales promotion." One especially favored replica is of a Walther P-38, that Pat Lauchlin wears in his holster. Lauchlin says he's had relatively few children asking for them for trick-or-treating, though there was one, but he doesn't think it's a good idea for ten-year-olds to carry replica weapons that look as real as these. "They are totally realistic looking. They basically function and disassemble like a real gun world. But they're made primarily out of pop metal and some plastic and cannot be made to fire in any way." But even though these guns are fake, they're not cheap. P-38 Walthers with gun powder caps start at $79, and the Thompsons run some 250. Beyond Baltimore, though, the gun replicas have also been hot sellers in many fancy adult toy stores, notably for the Sharper Image Chain. Lisa Bouche is spokesperson for Sharper Image at its San Francisco headquarters. "We, of course, see a surge in a lot of sales around this time of year with the holidays coming up, and I would imagine a lot of people probably ... even though they are in the high end in price, our customer generally does have quite a bit of money to spend. So I could definitely foresee them buying it for that purpose." Lest anyone misperceive, who it is that is looking for the guns, Bouche is quick to note that the average income of the store's shoppers is $91,000. This is Frank Browning in Washington. * * * In World War II, many Air Force pilots would convince that mechanical and electronic
problems were caused by gremlins. According to Mike Waters, gremlins are small creatures rarely noticed by humans anymore. But he says they are still among us. Gremlins, like almost all creatures, like to have recognition. There was a time when the mischievous works of gremlins were almost legend. But now people talk about bugs in the equipment. It's not bugs. It's the gremlins. There is one night, one night every year, when some gremlins are acknowledged, and that night is Halloween. I know a gremlin who, on Halloween night, goes skipping down a street until it sees a lighted porch. It will climb the stairs, reach up, press the doorbell, and wait for the lady of the house to come, who invariably will say something like, "You're a little gremlin, aren't you?" The gremlin will nod. And she will say, "Would you like some taffy?" And the gremlin would say, "No." "You have a deep voice." The gremlin would nod. "What's your name, child?" "Inkey." "Do you live in this neighborhood, child?" "No." "What's your last name, child?" "Gall." "Inkey Gall. Would you like some Tootsie Rolls, Inkey Gall?" "No. " "What would you like?" "I'd like to mess up your TV." "Is your mother out there on the sidewalk?" "No." "John, John, would you come in here, please?" "Barbara, the TV's gone funny. I have to fix it." "Inkey Gall, I think your mother wants you. I think you should go home right away." The gremlin smiled, or grimaced, which is the way a gremlin smiles. And as it moved across the porch, it turned and said, "I've messed up every drop of milk in your refrigerator." And the woman knew that all the milk in the refrigerator was sour. Inkey Gall turned, bounced down the steps and skipped down the street, looking for another house, where the porch lights were lit. Now, there's no such thing as insurance against gremlins. So if you answer your door on Halloween, you should know, not everyone that looks like a gremlin is a child, and not everyone is interested in treats. (Doorbell)
---
Lesson26
Virginia State authorities and agents from five federal law enforcement organizations
raided the Leesburg, Virginia headquarters of independent presidential candidate, Lyndon LaRouche, this morning. NPR's Frank Browning reports. "Three key members of the LaRouche organization were arrested this morning as scores of law enforcement agents swept in for a 6:45 am raid. Jeffrey and Michelle Steinberg were arrested on federal charges of credit card fraud and tax evasion. And another member of LaRouche's inner circle was also charged with obstruction of justice. A federal grand jury in Boston has been investigating the LaRouche organization for several months in relation to charges that it has been involved in a variety of financial frauds of unsuspecting supporters. Ten of LaRouche's followers have been charged with fraud so far. The criminal scheme, allegedly involved some 200,000 unauthorized credit card charges totaling more than $1,000,000. The Internal Revenue Service and Virginia authorities are also investigating a variety of other criminal charges. I'm Frank Browning reporting." The Supreme Court began its 1986-87 term today under new Chief Justice William Rehnquist. The court agreed to decide whether government-run airports may prohibit the distribution of literature inside terminals. The Justices will also consider the right of ethnic and religious minorities to file racial discrimination suits. Japan has lowered its prime lending rate in a move designed to stimulate its economy and improve demand for US imports. The cut from 3.5% to 3% is part of a sweeping agreement reached today between the United States and Japan. In addition to cutting its prime rate, Japan has agreed to coordinate its foreign exchange policy with the US Today is the first Monday in October, and that means the opening day of the new Supreme Court term. NPR's legal affairs correspondent, Nina Totenberg was at the court this morning when the gavel went down. Nina: "Well, as you know, by now, Terry, this was a rather special beginning with a new Chief Justice, William Rehnquist at the helm, and a new Justice, Antonin Scalia, in the junior Justice's chair." "So what was it like?" "Well, I gotta tell you. To someone who had never been at the court before, it may have looked quite normal. But to me, it was really quite strange. Very weird, in fact. For fifteen years, we watched this Court with Chief Justice Burger in the center of the bench. And now the whole Court has played a kind of musical chairs, with justice Rehnquist, who used to sit at the far right, moving to the center to run the Court. Chief Justice Burger is gone. Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, who I used to look across the room at and used to look rather placid to me across the room, is now sitting just over my shoulder above me. Chief Justice Rehnquist seemed a tad nervous as he opened the term this morning. As far as the new Justice, Antonin Scalia, he waited
only about ten minutes during the first case argued this morning before he joined in peppering the lawyers with questions. Actually he started to ask a question even earlier, but was cut off by Justice O'Connor, and sort of hung back while a couple of other Justices asked questions. And then, Justice Seebans, who sits next to Justice Scalia, looked at Scalia as if to say 'Okay Kid, your turn now.' "Well, I can report to you, in general, that the Justices looked well rested and rather pleased at the look of the new Court. This morning's session was spirited with all of the Justices asking questions and a couple of them smiling rather broadly at the sight of Justice Scalia tearing into the attorneys arguing their cases." "Okay. What about the upcoming term? What cases can we look forward to?" "Well, you know, Alexis de Tocqueville once wrote that, in the United States, almost every pressing social question eventually reaches the Supreme Court. And while last term was an unusual blockbuster of a year, this term is no slouch either." "Later this month, the Court will hear what is probably the last broad based challenge to the death penalty. The Court must decide if capital punishment should be invalidated if statistics show that it's imposed disproportionately more often on blacks than on whites, or more often on the killers of whites than on the killers of blacks. The decision in this case, will have an enormous impact on the more than 1,700 men and women currently on death row." "Last year, the Court issued major decisions in the affirmative action area. What about this year?" "Well, last year, the Court ruled than affirmative action is generally acceptable in hiring, but not in lay-offs. This year, the Court will focus its attention on affirmative action in promotions and when that kind of affirmative action, if ever, is permissible. The Court will also hear a major sex discrimination case involving pregnancy. At issue is a California law that requires all employers to provide women up to four months disability leave for pregnancy. A California bank is challenging the law, claiming that it discriminates against men who do not get that kind of disability leave when they are ill. The bank claims that the California law violates a federal law which bans any sort of discrimination based on pregnancy. Then, there's another case that involves the federal law banning discrimination against the handicapped in employment. The question in this case is whether people who have a communicable disease, like AIDS or tuberculosis, can be denied jobs because of their disease. In this case, a school system fired a teacher who had tuberculosis." "What about the area of separation of Church and State, cases involving religion?" "There are a whole slew of these cases again this year, but two stand out as particularly interesting. One case pits the evangelical Christian community against the nation's educators. Louisiana passed a law that requires all schools that teach the theory of evolution to teach creationism alongside it as an alternative theory: creationism being the theory that God created man whole without any evolution. When this law was passed in Louisiana, it was challenged in court by the Quasi-independent state school board, which argued that creationism has no scientific basis, only a religious basis. A federal court struck down the law ruling that it, in effect, amounted to an endorsement of religion, and Louisiana's governor
appealed to the Supreme Court." "In a second religion case, the Court will decide if religious and political groups have the right to distribute literature inside government run airport terminals. Sound familiar? When Los Angeles tried to ban the distribution of such literature, a minister from Jews for Jesus challenged the ban in court. The lower courts ruled that airports are public forums much like parks and sidewalks, and that the government could not can the distribution of political or religious literature there. Los Angeles appealed to the Supreme Court, and today the High Court agreed to review the case. There'll be lots of other fascinating cases this year on questions as diverse as gambling on Indian preservations to presidential versus congressional powers. Today, as I said, was just the beginning." "Thank you, NPR's legal affairs correspondent, Nina Totenberg." Scientists at the National Cancer Institute said they have found a new method for treating cancers of the lung, liver and colon in test animals. The scientists report the method cured cancer of the liver and colon in mice. NPR's Lori Garrett has details. Doctor Steven Rosenberg has done it again. Last year, Rosenberg stunned the medical community with word he had successfully treated some human cancer patients with a revolutionary type of therapy. But some of the patients suffered serious side effects from the treatment. One died as a result. So Rosenberg has been busy working on improvements. Today, in Science magazine, Rosenberg reports studies in mice show he may have found the right treatment. Rosenberg is working on ways to trick the body's immune system into successfully attacking tumor cells. The immune system is complicated. Any successful attack on cancer cells involves a vast army of special immune chemicals and cells. A key chemical is Interleukin-2. It stimulates cells of the immune system to do their jobs and kill enemy targets such as cancer cells. Interleukin-2 is now readily available, cheaply manufactured because it can be made through genetic engineering techniques. Rosenberg and his colleagues initially tried to grow human white blood cells in the laboratory in dishes full of Interleukin-2. The idea was to stimulate those white blood cells, make them good fighters, and then inject them back into the cancer patients where they would tackle the enemy tumor cells. It worked, but the doses of Interleukin-2 that were required were toxic, even deadly. Now, Rosenberg is trying something new on mice. Instead of withdrawing white blood cells and treating them in the laboratory, Rosenberg removes pieces of the actual tumors. He then grows those tumor cells in the lab in dishes full of Interleukin-2. In a few days, the tumor cells die, leaving only a handful of lymphocytes. These are cells that were attached to the tumors, but were previously unable to kill them. Now, activated by their incubation with Interleukin-2, these lymphocytes are ready to fight. Rosenberg injects these specially primed lymphocytes into the mice. He also injects more Interleukin-2, but in small enough doses that no side effects are noticed. And he injects one more thing: a chemical that
suppresses the rest of the immune system so that nothing will interfere with the work of the primed killer cells. The results are nothing short of astonishing. Now remember this is mice, but for all mice with advanced cancers of the colon, this treatment eliminated 100% of the tumors. Half of the mice with lung cancer were cured. All of the mice with cancer of the liver were cured. Now, Rosenberg's laboratory is growing similar killer cells for human beings, and the National Cancer Institute plans to begin human experimental treatment soon. Although this study appears quite hopeful, it must be remembered that this work so far only involves mice. Whether results will be as dramatic in human beings remains to be seen. I'm Gorrett reporting.
---
Lesson27
The Soviet news agency TASS reports that an American cancer researcher has defected to the Soviet Union. According to TASS, Arnold Loskin, his wife and three children arrived in Moscow today after being granted political asylum. TASS said Loskin has defected after being fired from his job, because he opposed US foreign policy. The upcoming summit is having an impact on the budget debate on Capitol Hill. President Reagan accused Congress of helping Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev by attaching arms control demands to the spending bill. The House wants the President to continue to abide by the terms of the ungratified SALT II Treaty, among other things. House leaders say the President is threatening to shut down the government unless he gets his way on arms issues. The House today approved a compromise anti-drug bill that would institute the death penalty for drug related murders. A provision threatened a filibuster to keep it from passing. Representatives dropped the provision from the original bill that would require the use of the military to patrol the border against drug smuggling. It hasn't rained until ... since Saturday in Eastern Missouri, but flooding problems continue to intensify along the Missouri and Mississippi Rivers north of St. Louis. Thousands have been forced to leave their homes as flood waters continue to rise. Jim Dryden of member station KWMU in St. Louis reports. "In St. Charles Counry just to the north of St. Louis, flooding is worse now than at any time in recent history. All of the levees along the Missouri River have broken, and the towns of Portage Des Sioux and Westalton, which sit at the confluence of the Missouri and Mississippi Rivers, have been completely isolated by water. Ray Camp of the St. Charles County Office of Emergency Management says levees and dikes north of the confluence of the two rivers are causing those rivers to seek out new channels. Westalton is now
under the water of one such new channel. That town is being evacuated this evening after desperate attempts to sandbag it failed. Almost the entire peninsula which sits at the confluence of the two rivers is under as much as fifteen feet of water, and is now accessible only by boat. And even though the Missouri River reached its crest this morning and the Mississippi is expected to crest tomorrow, emergency management officials say it will be quite some time before residents of the flooded area will be able to return home. For National Public Radio, I'm Jim Dryden in St. Louis." As President Reagan gets ready for this weekend's meeting with Soviet leader Gorbachev, commentator Cal Thomas thinks that House Democrats are depriving the President of the most important thing he could take to Iceland—a clear control over US foreign policy. House majority leader Jim Wright isn't even Speaker of the House yet, and already he is acting as if he were President. Wright has offered President Reagan a deal. He says he and House Democrats will delay a showdown with the White House over arms control until next year if the President will agree to terms for future consideration of constraints on strategic weapons and other House arms control strategies. These would include abiding by weapons limits in the unratified SALT II Treaty, which the Soviets have repeatedly violated. This type of behavior on the eve of a meeting in Iceland between the President and Mikhail Gorbachev would be unseemly enough for any member of Congress. But for major Democratic leader it is unconscionable. Why should Gorbachev feel any need to negotiate with the President if House Democrats led by Jim Wright are doing his job for him? Gorbachev, of course, is under no such pressure since members of the Politburo in one-party Russia compete only for the privilege of being the loudest ratifier of Gorbachev policies. Wright, who was a co-signer of a 1984 "Dear Commandant" letter to Nicaragua's Marxist dictator Daniel Ortega, in which, among other things, he deplored his own country's policies against the Central American nation, apparently believes that cutting a deal with the Soviets in which we all will live in a safer world is like a mating game. One must make the right moves before the other party shows any interest. The Soviets are pressing ahead on all fronts, offensive and defensive weapons and laser technology, even while they denounce the United States for conducting research on its own strategic defense initiative. Will they be impressed by the good will Congressman Wright thinks he is displaying by trying to tie the President's hands before Iceland? Hardly. Gorbachev will try to tie the President's feet as well. The history of this country before the Vietnam War was that the President of the United States set American foreign policy. The Congress advised and debated, but in the end it was the President who prevailed if differences arose. Now it is the Congress that is making foreign policy: on South Africa, on Central America, and, on the most dangerous level of all, with our chief adversary, the Soviet Union. There is no room for mistakes in dealing with the Soviets, but Jim Wright and the House Democrats are making them. Gorbachev will arrive in Reykjavik well rested, knowing that much of his work will
have already been done for him by Jim Wright. No wonder he's bringing his wife. There will be plenty of spare time for socializing. Cal Thomas is a columnist for the Los Angeles Times Syndicate. The Superpower leaders left Iceland this weekend without moving their nations noticeably closer to peace. But at the same time another interaction between Americans and Soviet citizens was just getting started in the USSR. It is a meeting of Northern people, an Arctic attempt at understanding. From Anchorage, reporter Joanna Urick has more on the Alaska Performing Arts for Peace. Before Leaving for the Soviet Union, sixty Alaskans from throughout the state gathered in a log cabin on a lake outside of Anchorage to rehearse. "I see people from Moscow. I see people from Leningrad." As John Pingyer, a Upic Eskimo reads his lines, he's thinking about an ancient Upic ceremony called "the Bladder Festival," in which people from different villages gather together. At the end of the week-long rituals they take the bladders from seals their hunters have taken during the past year and inflate them so they'll float. Then they return the seal bladders to the ocean. "There's a lot of symbolism behind the ceremony. And one of the strongest symbolism that we're using in this Bladder Festival is ... togetherness of people, as one part of one big village or a community, and then we use it to portray the closeness of people, which is the peace." The Bladder Festival forms the dramatic framework for a show involving more than sixty people from Alaska. The Alaska Performing Arts for Peace will take their show through a succession of cities, towns and villages in the Soviet Union, culminating in the reunification of Siberian Upic Eskimos, people who have lived along the coast of the Bering Sea, until the Cold War moving freely back and forth between the continents. At times, they can see one another hunting on the ice, but actual contact has been forbidden since the coming of military installations following World War II. The Alaska villages of Wonga on St. Lawrence Island is actually closer to Siberia than to the US mainland. Seventy-year-old Aura Gologrogin, who accompanies the Wonga comedy players on the tour, remembers the last time she visited friends and relatives on the Siberian coast. She's looking forward to meeting them again. "Yeh, it is like a big family reunion. I was thinking if I could meet some of the people that I know long time ago, since I have been there when I was younger. In 1940 I go over and stay there for nine days and they were so nice people. And I want to meet them again." This tour is not just an Eskimo reunion. Along with some thirty Eskimos are chorus, cloggers, fiddlers and black gospel singers. "Each culture has something unique to offer, and that's what we have here. Each culture has something unique to offer, and that uniqueness will be pulled together as one. And that one body is what we are sharing with the Soviet Union." Shirley Staten is one of five gospel singers from Anchorage looking forward to another reunion with the small group of Russians, descendants of Black Americans
who emigrated to Moscow during the Depression. "And we're going to sit around and sing gospel music, and I am just ... I mean that's the highlight of the trip." "We are going to sing in chorus. Then we can start together in Russian. It seems like that's the way it's going to work." Organizer Digby Belger says it's taken two difficult years to make the tour of the Alaska Performing Artists for Peace a reality. And in that time, there have been dramatic ups and downs in US-Soviet relations. "In some way, this might be a nice time to go. And you know, if ... I really feel that the more tension between us, the more that we really need to communicate. And people to people exchange is a very good way to do that." The Alaska Performing Artists for Peace's month-long tour will take them from Moscow in the west to the Chukchi Peninsula in the east coast of Siberia. They'll return to the United States November 2nd. In Anchorage, this is Joanna Urich.
---
Lesson28
President Reagan addresses the nation in about three hours to explain what happened during his meetings this weekend with Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev. The meetings did not produce any arms control agreements, nor did they produce a date for another summit between the two leaders. America's NATO allies were disappointed at the lack of an agreement, especially the failure to rid Europe of medium-range US and Soviet missiles. But they urged the two Superpowers to keep talking. And British Foreign Office Minister Timothy Renton said he was surprised that the two leaders had made as much progress as they did, and said he didn't agree that the meetings had ended in failure. "I would regard what has happened in Iceland as by no manner of means the end of the play, but rather as one act in this extremely important, in this extremely important series of discussions. There is now an interval between the acts. We hope that it will be a short interval and that the parties involved will resume and take up the next act very quickly." The next act will likely be in Geneva where Renton said he presumes that the material introduced in Iceland will be worked on and developed. Some seventy thousand government workers in San Salvador returned to their jobs today just three days after an earthquake hit the city. El Salvador's President Jose Napoleon Duarte said nearly nine hundred people were killed in the quake and more than two hundred thousand left homeless. Duarte ordered civil servants back to work, although he said almost all public buildings suffered some kind of damage. Duarte estimates the earthquake caused two billion dollars worth of damage. Damage is expected to total into the tens of millions of dollars after several days of
flooding in south central Alaska. But it's believed no one has been hurt. Tim Wolston, of member station KSKA in Anchorage reports. "As many as fifteen homes have been destroyed and hundreds more damaged in the town of Seward, southeast of Anchorage. The main road leading into Seward has been washed away, cutting off the town from outside. Mayor Harry Giesler says hundreds have been evacuated; others prefer to wait it out. 'You know, Alaskans are a very hearty bunch, and especially people that have things like dog teams and animals. They are very, very reluctant to leave their home as long as it's even there.' Rain is forecast to continue for at least another day in Seward. Meanwhile, north of Anchorage, two bridges have been washed away, and the Alaska Railroad, a major form of transportation between Anchorage and Fairbanks has been cut off, making it very difficult for residents in interior Alaska to get to Five. The governor has issued disaster declarations to free up state fund for emergency relief. The state is hoping for federal assistance as well. For National Public Radio, this is Tim Wolston in Anchorage, Alaska." Today was a day for sorting out the summit in Iceland. How did it happen that the two most powerful men of earth stepped to the threshold of a dramatic arms control accord and then stepped back? The talks foundered on the President's Strategic Defense Initiative, or SDI. "While both sides seek reduction in the number of nuclear missiles and war heads threatening the world, the Soviet Union insisted that we sign an agreement that would deny to me and to future presidents for ten years the right to develop, test, and deploy a defense against nuclear missiles for the people of the free world. This we could not and will not do." "The President insisted, until the end, on retaining for the United States the right to test, to have experiments and to test things relating to SDI not only in the laboratories but also out of laboratories, including in space. So who was going to accept that? It would have taken a madman to accept that." The translated remarks yesterday by Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev and remarks by President Reagan. We'll hear defenders and critics of SDI later in tonight's program, but first NPR's Jim Angle, just back from Iceland, joins us to discuss what the two leaders almost achieved. "It is really amazing when you look at what the two Superpowers were able to do really in a period of twenty-four hours beginning with the experts meetings on Saturday night. In that twenty-four-hour-period, the two sides agreed to the most sweeping arms control proposals in the history of negotiations between the US and the Soviet Union. They agreed to fifty percent cuts in all offensive weapons, all offensive strategic weapons over five years, then went beyond that later on, in a proposal from President Reagan, to eliminate all offensive ballistic missiles at the end of a ten-year period. They also agreed on INF, or intermediate-range nuclear weapons, which are now both in Europe and in Asia. In the Soviet case, they agreed to eliminate all intermediate-range nuclear weapons in Europe and to reduce those in Asia by eighty-five percent to one hundred warheads, leaving the US with one
hundred warheads as well. These were the kind of cuts in nuclear weapons that no one anticipated when they came to Iceland. At first the US did not expect the negotiations to be that detailed, nor did anyone anticipate that two sides would actually start moving that quickly on something that they had been talking about for so long and been unable to do." "Tell us more about what the mood was like in Hofdi House during the negotiations." "The arms control experts met all night. They began at 8 p.m., quit at 6:30 the next morning. The two leaders were briefed by their respective groups somewhere around 9 o'clock that morning and began meeting again at 10. Then they started moving very quickly on the negotiations. The Soviets came back, for instance, and quickly resolved the medium-range missiles issue after some argument for quite a while. At this point, the negotiators, the advisors on the US side, some of them said that what was happening was really breathtaking because they were beginning to sense that these things were falling together, that there was this enormous movement between the two sides, movement in both their positions, that no one had anticipated when they arrived in Iceland. At that point, even President Reagan apparently asked some of his advisors whether or not they were moving too fast, whether or not they were going too far. And they would re-examine positions to make sure that things weren't moving so quickly that they didn't realize the implications of what they were doing. In fact, one advisor said on one particular issue President Reagan said, 'No. That is too far. We will not go with that opposition.' At the very end, the advisors did not know what was happening; in fact at one point, when the first meeting broke up on Sunday—it was supposed to be the last meeting—they were out in the motorcade in the cars until they found out President Reagan had told the media that they were meeting again. They got out of cars, went back into Hofdi House. At the very end, they did not know what was happening in the talks. They got word that the two leaders were finished, that they were going out of the building. They went down the stairs, looked over the stairwell, had no idea at this point what the result of the discussions had been. And then officials in the back asked one official in the front who could see the two leaders, 'What did their faces look like?' That official said, 'They're not smiling.' And at that point, they knew that nothing had been agreed to and they had come so close to such a major agreement and they had failed." "Well, everything fell apart at the last meeting because of the Strategic Defensive Initiative. What were the points of disagreement?" "Well, there were basically two. The Soviets wanted to restrict SDI work to the laboratory which the US says is a more restrictive interpretation of the ABM Treaty, the Anti-Ballistic Missiles Treaty, than anyone has ever proposed. Also that at the end of ten years, the Soviets wanted to begin discussions about deployment; the Americans wanted, insisted that they had the right to deploy at the end of ten years. Throughout three drafts of language on this, the Soviets continued to insist on limiting SDI to the laboratory; the Americans hoped that they would eventually drop it, as they do sometimes in negotiations. But they did not. The interesting thing here is that the Soviets had sweetened the deal to such an extent, had laid out this
amazing agreement between the two, that the two powers had come so close to this major agreement that this was, they hoped, the bait that would get President Reagan to adopt what people in the United States have called 'the grand compromise', which was to trade SDI for deproductions in offensive missies. At the end, the President rejected that. And American official think that they have not lost that deal. And the question now is what will happen next. What will US and the US and the Soviet Union agree to or fail to agree to in the Geneva arms talks?" "OK. Thank you. NPR's Jim Angle." For the next ninety minutes we will be questioning the candidates for president of the United States, following a format designed and agreed to by representatives of the two candidates. The candidates are Vice-President George Bush, the Republican nominee, Governor Michael Dukakis, the Democratic nominee. Our questions this evening will be about equally divided between foreign and domestic policy matters. The first question by agreement between the two candidates goes to Vice-president Bush. It is a domestic question. You have two minutes for an answer, Sir. The polls say the number one domestic issue to majority of voters is drugs. What is there about these times that drives or draws so many Americans to use drugs? "I think we've seen a deterioration of values. I think for a while as a nation we condoned those, those things we should have condemned for a while, as I recall, it even seems to me that there was talk of legalizing, eh, or decriminalizing, eh, marijuana and other drugs. And I think that's all wrong. So we've seen a deterioration in values. And one of the things that I think we should do about it, in terms of cause, is to instill values into the young people in our schools. We've got away. We've got this feeling that the value-free education was a thing. And I don't believe it at all. I do believe there are fundamental rights and wrongs as far as youth. And of course, as far as the ... how we make it better. Yes, we can do better on interdiction. But we've got to do a lot better on inter-... and we've got to do a lot better on education. And we have to do ... be tougher on those who commit crimes. We've got to get after the users more. We have to change this whole culture. You know, I saw a movie, Crocodile Dundee . And I saw the cocaine scene treated with humor, as though this was a humorous little incident. It's bad. Everybody ought to be in this thing, entertainment industry, people involved in the school's education. And it isn't a Republican or a Democrat or liberal problem. But we have got to instill values in these young people. And ... ah, I have put forward a ... many point drug program the includes what I would do as president of the United States in Terms of doing better on interdiction, in terms of doing better in the neighborhoods. But I think we are all in this together. And my plead to the American people is values in the schools." Governor, you have one minute to respond. "I agree with Mr. Bush that values are important. But it's important that our leaders demonstrate those values form the top. That means those of us who are elected to
positions of political leadership have to reflect those values ourselves. Here we are with a government that's been dealing with the drug running petty dictator. We've been dealing with him. He's been dealing drugs to our kids. Governors like me and others have been trying to do with the consequences. I remember being in a high school in my own state as we were organizing something we called 'the Governors' Alliance against Drugs', and a young sixteen-year-old girl coming up to me, desperate, addicted, dependent, saying, 'Governor, I need help,' We are providing that young woman with help. But I want to be a President of the United States who makes sure that we never again do business with the drug running petty dictator, that we never again funnel aid to the 'contras' and the convicted drug dealers. Values begin at the top, in the White House. Those are the values I want to be ... bring to Presidency and White House beginning January 1989." Governor, a follow-up question. You have two minutes to answer it. Are you suggesting, sir, that President Reagan is one of causes of the drug problem in this country? "I'm saying that those of us who are elected to the position of political leadership, Jim, have a special responsibility, not only to come up with programs and I have outlined and detailed a very important, very strong program of enforcement as well as drug education of prevention. And Mr. Bush is right. The two go hand in hand. But if our government itself is doing business itself with people who, we know, are engaged in drug profiteering an drug trafficking, if we don't understand that that sends out a very, very bad message to our young people, and it's a little difficult for me to understand just how we can reach out to that youngster that I talked about and young people like her all over the country and say to them, 'We want to help you." "Now, I've outlined in great detail a program for being tough on enforcement home and abroad, doubling the number of drug enforcement agents, having a hemisphere's summit. Soon after the twentieth of January, we'll bring out democratic neighbors and allies together here in this hemisphere and go to work together. We also have to take demands seriously. You know we have 5% of the world's population in this country. We're consuming 50% of the world's cocaine. And in my state, I'm proud to say we've organized a drug education prevention program which the Federal drug enforcement administration says is a model of the country. We are helping youngsters. We're reaching out to them. And we're beginning drug education, prevention, beginning in the early elementary grades and every elementary school in ... eh ... in our ... eh ... our state. And that's the kind of help we need in every elementary school in the United States of America. And we've got to begin early in the first, second and third grade before our youngsters begin to experiment with these very, very dangerous substances. I guess the question I would ask of Mr. Bush is, how we instill those values? How we create this environment for the drug-free schools that we want of this country? If he or representatives of the administration...ah...are either dealing with and involving people like Noriega in our foreign policy, or don't pursue that connection in a way that makes it possible for us to cut it off and to be an example to our kids all over this country."
A minute to ... eh ... rebut, Mr. Vice-President. "On the other day my opponent was given a briefing by the CIA. I asked for and received the same briefing. I'm very careful in public life about dealing with classified information. And what I'm about to say is unclassified. Seven administrations are dealing with Mr. Noriega. It was the Reagan-Buch Administration that brought this man to justice. And as the governor of Massachusetts knows there was no evidence that governor ... that ... that eh ... Mr. Noriega was involved in drugs, no hard evidence until we indicted him. And so I think it's about time we get this Noriega matter in perspective. Panama is a friendly country. I went down there and talked to the President of Panama about cleaning up their mon... money laundering. And Mr. Noriega was there. But there was no evidence at that time. And when the evidence was there, we indicted him and we want to bring him to justice and so call up for those pickets-up there that are trying to tear down seven different administrations."
---
Lesson29
There was mixed reaction at home and abroad on the lack of a concrete agreement from the meetings in Iceland. On Capitol Hill, reaction broke down along party lines, with Democrats criticizing the President for missing a golden opportunity; Republicans praised him for not caving in to the Soviets. America's NATO allies were disappointed that promising arms reduction initiatives never materialized. They especially regretted the lack of an agreement to eliminate medium-range US and Soviet missiles from Europe. But Kenneth Adelman, Director of the US Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, says too much criticism is unfounded. He says the meetings did yield two proposals which have moved the arms control process far beyond where it was before the meetings in Iceland. "I think the prospects are better now because the Soviets have agreed to particular numbers on their 50% proposal for reductions of strategic weapons, and agreed to only, to have only a hundred warheads worldwide in the INF, or intermediate-range nuclear force. Soviet negotiators cannot now say the Soviets need five hundred and thirteen warheads in Asia as they did last week if their leader says, no, they only need a hundred in Asia." Adelman says arms negotiators in Geneva can now pick up where the talks left off in Reykjavik. Flood waters began to recede today in Alaska after three days of rain caused heavy damage, damage expected to reach into the millions of dollars. "It's getting better," said one emergency worker. "Things are actually starting to look up." Alaska Governor Bill Sheffield planned to fly over the flood-stricken areas north and south of Anchorage. So far, there are no reports of injuries. Many people have been evacuated from their homes.
All the high schools and middle schools in South Africa in the black township of Soweto were shut down today as students staged a massive walkout. Thousands of students reported to classes, but walked out in mid-morning as part of a protest. Hundreds of people are homeless and thousands more stranded, after severe rain and windstorm lasting three days slammed portions of South Central Alaska. Flooding that washed away bridges and roads and destroyed at least fifteen homes continues in many areas, and persistent bad weather is hampering rescue and damage assessment efforts. Tim Wolston, of member station KSKA in Anchorage. The worst deluge of rain in at least a decade began pelting South Central Alaska last Thursday night. Sixty and seventy-mile-an-hour winds helped the rain wash away two bridges and the railroad line north of Anchorage, and completely cut off the town of Seward, southeast of here, from the outside. Seward Mayor Harry Giesler says very conservative estimate of fifteen million dollars in damage has been done so far. "We're looking at extensive road repair and rebuilding on all the arterial roads and even the main road coming into town. And the railroad, pardon the expression, caught h, e, double toothpicks. Heavy fog and continuing rain are hampering efforts to assess the damage and get supplies to those who need them. But Giesler says those that needed to be evacuated have been, while others are trying to ride out the storm. "You know Alaskans are a very hearty bunch, and especially people that have things like dog teams and animals. They are very, very reluctant to leave their home as long as it's even there. So we're going, trying to get back and check on people, make sure they're all right and that they have food and water and things like that." The water is still rising in spots, and Seward is expecting at least another twenty-four hours of rain. North of Anchorage, the damage is just as severe. Lieutenant Mike Holler of the state Division of the Emergency Services says several hundred homes in the valley north of Anchorage have been damaged. "It remains to be seen, as people literally walk out of the woods or find dry ground and are evacuated, as to just what extent the damage will get total." Lieutenant Holler says two major bridges north of Anchorage were totally washed away by the raging waters, and tracks belonging to the Alaska Railroad, which provides a major form of transportation between Anchorage and Fairbanks, were destroyed. "Now, as far as the goods, shipment of goods and materials to sustain life in the interior of Alaska, that particular transportation avenue has been totally shut off, along with the highway as far as using overland trucking and so forth." Emergency shelters have been set up for those left homeless by the flooding. Alaska Governor Bill Sheffield has issued disaster declarations in order to free up state relief funds, and the state is hoping for federal aid. Officials say because of the remoteness of many of the communities involved, it may be several days before the damage is fully assessed, and that's if threatening clouds don't release more rain. For National Public Radio, this is Tim Wolston in Anchorage, Alaska.
The conflict between Arab and Jew in Israel and the occupied territories is fought with bombs and jet fighter attacks and with high level political posturing. But there's also a psychological struggle between the two. New York Times Correspondent David Shipler has written a book called Arab and Jew, which explores the stereotypes and myths that Israelis learn about Arabs, and that Arabs learn about Israelis. "These myths," said Shipler, "stem from and help perpetuate the political and military conflicts. "Shipler says the two cultures teach their children to hate in the schools. "Increasingly, Israeli Jews are beginning to realize that the battlefield is not only on the frontiers of their country ,but also in the minds of their children, that what happens in classrooms, how the Arab is portrayed in text-books, how the teachers talk about Arabs, how Arab children see Jews as they grow up—all of these elements are important in shaping the future, because the prejudices are very deep and are reinforced so thoroughly everyday that it's hard to see a way out of them .There is textbook called The Arabs and Islam that's used ... it's published by the Israeli Ministry of Education and Culture and used in religious Jewish schools for seventh and eighth graders. And that textbook portrays the Arab as essentially primitive and violent. These two concepts go together in the sense that the Arab affection for violence and battle and warfare and robbery is highlighted. And you don't get any sense at all of the Arab as a modern, urban professional. The Arab is a desert warrior essentially, whose children grow up playing games. ... For example, there's a passage that says the Bedouin man is proud to engage in robbery and so educates his children. Bedouin children like the game 'Hassu' —robbery raids. They compete in running and wrestling and learn to use weapons at a very young age. In another section, there's a phrase that says, 'the women who lose their sons or husbands in the battle receive the hard news without weeping or cries.' In other words, the Arab doesn't value human life somehow. Now that stereotype is fairly common to many cultures." "We heard that during the Vietnam War about the Vietnamese :they don't value human life like we Westerners." "Exactly. During the Korean War about the Koreans, during World War II about the Japanese. It's a fairly common one. Of course, what it does is dehumanize the Arab in the eyes of Jewish children who are raised with these textbooks." "Now what happens when you go to schools of Arabs inside Israeli occupied territory? How did they portray the Jews, the Israelis?" "The textbooks that are used surreptitiously in Arab schools on the West Bank, for example, are published by Jordan." "You say, surreptitiously." "Yes, because the Israeli procedure is to take those Jordanian textbooks, expurgate the offensive passages and republish them. But in fact they have only three inspectors for a thousand schools to check to make sure that Arab teachers are not using the Jordanian versions. So they really can't check up very thoroughly. And the Jordanian versions do creep into the classrooms. What happens in those textbooks is
that Jews are portrayed as violent and are hardly seen at all except in the context of the Arab-Israeli conflict. One of the interesting companion stereotypes to the Jew as violent that you see in Arab textbooks is the Jew as a coward. This idea is quite pervasive. The Jew is strong because he has advanced weapons, but in his soul, in his heart he's a coward, and so he hides behind these weapons." "Is there any way to gauge whether these stereotypes, whether the school's socialization process is really working? In other words, can you somehow measure if the ... how these teachings of the schools are affecting the way Arab and Israeli children interact with each other, that it makes them hostile toward each other?" "In the first place Arab and Israeli children hardly ever have contact and rarely have an opportunity to interact, because they live separately, they go to separate schools, and what not. But I think there's no question that the school setting on both sides encourages bigotry. There was one example that brought it home to me of an Israeli girl who was ten years old, who came home from school one day after an attack on Arab mayors on the West Bank, and she said, 'Mommy, are we glad or not glad that it happened?'" "She didn't know." "Her mother said, 'We're absolutely not glad. Violence is never the way.' And the next day she came home from school, and she said, 'Mommy, you're wrong. We are glad it happened.' I don't know where she picked it up, whether from other children or from a teacher. But there are some schools, and in especially religious schools in Israel devoted to teaching children of right-wing ultranationalists, where the instruction is quite ideological in terms of rejecting the Arab as an alien who really doesn't belong in this land except as a subordinate to the Jew. Young people have told me that they're taught that the Arab is Amalek, the ancient enemy of the Jews in the Bible who is to be exterminated." "You have been talking a lot about school textbooks, for instance, what's taught in the schools as a way of perpetuating these stereotypes. In our own country, of course, there's been a big effort in the past ten-twenty years to purge textbooks in the classrooms of the sort of stereotypes we have had of blacks, for instance, or Indians. Is there anybody in Israel who is trying to do a similar thing with the Israeli textbooks?" "Yes, there is an entire effort being conducted by the Vanier Foundation with the Ministry of Education's cooperation to take these stereotypes out of text books, to write new ones, to revise the curriculum from top to bottom, beginning in the youngest grades in an effort to sensitize Israeli Jewish children to the richness and diversity of Arab culture and to portray Arabs as more than just enemies, but also as fellow citizens and neighbors." "And this is something the government condones?" "Well, half-heartedly. There is a support for it officially in the Education Ministry, but the religious schools are reluctant to do it. And there's been some resistance on the part of some educators at the level of school principal or teacher. So it's a mixed picture. It's gone to the point where quite a few eleventh grade classes now are following an elective curriculum in which they begin the first day by writing down all
the words that come to mind when they think of Arabs. The teacher then puts them up on the blackboard, and the kids have to sit there and stare at their own prejudices. And that's the beginning of a process of dealing with the stereotypes they've grown up with." David Shipler. His new book is called Arab and Jews : Wounded Spirits in A Promised Land .
---
Lesson30
Israeli warplanes raided suspected Palestinian targets in southern Lebanon today, a day after a grenade attack near Jerusalem's Wailing Wall. NPR's Deborah Amis reports. "This afternoon four Israeli jets streaked over the Palestinian refugee camp of Miamia near the south Lebanese town of Sidon within the Palestinian targets. According to reports from Sidon, one Israeli Phantom jet was shot down by a Sam-5 missile during the raid. Two of the crewmen on board parachuted out. One died; the other was captured by Amal, the Lebanese Shi'ite Muslim group. The Israeli military spokesman in Jerusalem would only confirm that a raid had taken place in south Lebanon, but wouldn't comment on any of the other details coming from Lebanese reports. Meanwhile in Israel, a government crisis that has riveted the attention of most Israelis was resolved today, but hardly noticed in the unfolding drama of the day's events. In a rotation agreement made by the two major political parties, Yitzhak Shamir will become the new Prime Minister of Israel on Monday. For National Public Radio, this is Deborah Amis in Jerusalem." Nigerian playwright, poet and novelist Wole Soyinka was named today as the first black to win the Nobel Prize for Literature. Soyinka has published about twenty works that denounce racism and fascism, and praise everyday man of every color. And at the news conference in Paris today, Soyinka said the award represented world recognition of the long misunderstood culture and traditions of Africa. The winner of the 1986 Nobel Prize for Economics was also named today. James Buchanan of George Mason University is recognized for discoveries demonstrating the link between political decisions and a nation's economic performance. Congress approved another emergency funding bill to keep the government operating another day, while lawmakers continued debate on an overall spending package for the year. NPR's Cokie Roberts reports. "Big orange and white buttons reading 'Free the 99th Congress' have sprouted on the lapels all over Capitol Hill. Members of Congress, ready to hit the campaign trail, just don't seem able to get out of Washington. The big five hundred and seventy-six billion dollar spending bill needed to keep the government functioning through this fiscal year is being debated on the Senate floor. The House passed the measure last night. But the other
must-pass piece of legislation, the measure to allow the government to keep borrowing in order to pay its bills, is now not expected before tomorrow. Two other big bills still need one house to act on them. The House passed immigration reform yesterday. The Senate will deal with it tomorrow. The Senate passed a drug bill yesterday and now it looks like it will be tomorrow before that measure reaches the House floor. I'm Cokie Roberts at the Capitol." Israel reacted swiftly today both diplomatically and militarily to a grenade attack in Jerusalem last night. The Palestine Liberation Organization claimed responsibility for the attack from its office in Cairo. Today, according to reports from news agencies in Lebanon, Israeli war planes bombed and shelled a Palestinian refugee camp in south Lebanon. From Jerusalem, Deborah Amis reports. Event unfolded quickly today. According to reports from Lebanon, Israeli jets bombed and shelled Miamia, a Palestinian refugee camp near the Lebanese port city of Sidon. According to witnesses there three civilians were wounded as the planes hit their targets. Sidon and the refugee camp nearby have become a stronghold for Al-Fatah guerrillas, loyal to Yasir Arafat, Chairman of the PLO. The raid today appears to be in retaliation for yesterday's grenade attacks in Jerusalem. Although other groups claimed responsibility throughout the day, the Israeli government chose to take the PLO claim seriously as shown in their choice of targets. According to reports out of Lebanon tonight, an Israeli plane was shot down in the raid, and one crewman was captured; the other one died. The Israeli military spokesman would only confirm that a raid had taken place in south Lebanon, but would not comment on any of the other details. On the diplomatic front earlier today Mohammed Basuni, Egypt's Ambassador to Israel was summoned to the Foreign Ministry. There a senior Israeli official presented him with a formal protest. Basuni was told that the PLO office in Cairo was incompatible with the terms of the peace treaty with Israel. This morning, when the PLO claimed responsibility for the grenade attack in Jerusalem, the statement was made from the Cairo office. Fizo Awada, the PLO representative, was interviewed on Cairo radio. Ambassador Basuni said today that Egypt condemns terrorism and that Egyptian authority has summoned the PLO representative for an explanation. However, the fact that Egypt is the only Arab country to have an Ambassador in Israel and a PLO representative in Cairo presents some problems. Today, some Israeli military authorities were making the semantic distinction on last night's grenade attack. Some called it "a guerrilla attack" rather than "a terrorist one." Yitzhak Shamir, Israel's Prime Minister, said he saw no difference. "Civilians or military, the PLO was out to kill Jews," he said. Clearly, that was the reason for today's raids on Palestinian refugee camps in south Lebanon. For National Public Radio, this is Deborah Amis in Jerusalem. The recipient of this year's Nobel Prize for Literature was announced today. He is Wole Soyinka, a fifty-two-year-old Nigerian playwright and an author. Soyinka's best
known work in this country is probably Ake , his childhood memoir. Soyinka is the first African and the first black to win the distinguished prize for literature. And he was in Paris today when he heard the news. Melodie Walker reports. Wole Soyinka is in Paris to attend a meeting of International Theatre Institute, a non-governmental organization at UNESCO headquarters. Appearing somewhat annoyed by the crowd of reporters who cornered him in a lounge at UNESCO, the Nigerian writer confessed that he wasn't really prepared for the onslaught of instant Nobel prize fame. "I am not really enjoying it, honestly. It's ... I had no psychological preparation. You know, I'm just into it like that, you know. If I'd had some notice and I'd been able to, you know, prepare myself, you know, like an athlete going into combat, into competition perhaps, but this was rather sudden. You know, really, really sudden, totally unexpected." Soyinka says he accepted the news of the Nobel Prize for Literature with the deep sense of honor, but not for himself alone. He says the award goes beyond his individual work and honors all African writers. "I don't believe in literally prizes. And therefore when I view the literary prize, I tend to see the prize in a much larger context than the individual writer, because how do you judge works of literature? How do you compare works of literature from different cultures? It's an almost impossible task. So certain contradictions must go into the choice of somebody to receive an award of this kind. And that, those contradictions must go outside of the person himself. It has to do with the context. Without any compromise in literary qualities, I do not believe that I'm considered a bad writer; that's why I've been given this prize. No, don't misunderstand me. But I'm saying that it's more than just being an acceptable writer who gives some kind of literary pleasure to discerning, sophisticated people. It goes beyond that. It has to do with the significance of this occasional symbolic event. And it is very much a symbolic event. It's for all the African writers, for even the third would, for even the universal literature, because it opens the universe to the literature not merely of the recipient of the prize, but of the society from which his literature comes. It opens, then, certain nuggets, literary and artistic nuggets which they have taken for granted, which they have relegated to the exotica. So it's a symbolic prize, and I view it as such ..." Wole Soyinka writes poetry, plays and novels in his native Yoruba and in English. He studied theatre in England in the 1950s after attending Leeds University. Then he returned to Nigeria in 1960 to form a highly successful and popular theatre group. His works, including political satire sketches, have been translated into many languages and performed all over the world. Soyinka says he is a writer for the theatre above all else, and he feels perfectly comfortable writing in both his native tribal language as well as in English. "In the history of the world, there have been many writers, in fact, who ended up writing in a language which is not their first language. I think it's possible to evaluate the angst which goes with this kind of imposition, which becomes almost second nature. But I think if one examines the question of translation ... and African, the
works of African writers have been translated into all languages (the works of Chinow Tado, like mine, have been translated into Japanese, Arabic, Russian, Bulgarian, and of course, African languages as well) —then the problem becomes much smaller." Soyinka was reluctant to talk about his work amid the microphones, clicking cameras and glaring TV lights. With a smile, he criticized reporters for preventing him from attending his UNESCO meeting today, and said he hoped to return to Nigeria as soon as possible where he can have some peace and quiet and time to write. For National Public Radio, this is Melodie Walker in Paris.
---
Lesson31
Mozambique's President Samora Machel has been killed in a plane crash on South Africa's eastern border. Machel and twenty-eight others died in the crash during a thunderstorm last night. Ten survived. They were returning home from a weekend summit of African leaders in Zambia. Machel was fifty-three. He led Mozambique to independence and had been President since 1975. General Motors announced today it is selling its assets in South Africa. G.M. Chairman Roger Smith said the recession in South Africa and a lack of progress in ending apartheid has created what he called an increasingly difficult business environment. Smith said GM South African operations had been losing money for several years. GM's Opel and Isuzu subsidiaries will be sold to a group headed by local South African management. The Reagan Administration today reacted angrily to the Soviet expulsion of five American diplomats from the Soviet Union yesterday. NPR's Jim Angle has details. "White Home spokesman Larry Speakes called it an unjustified action based on unfounded allegations. 'We are upset, outraged, and chagrined,' he said. At the State Department, spokesman Charles Redman said the US has made its views of the expulsions clear to Soviet officials in Moscow. 'We did protest that action. In doing so, we made the point that this action is totally without justification and cannot help but have a detrimental effect on our relations.' Administration officials said the expulsion was clearly a retaliation for the US expulsion of twenty-five diplomats at the Soviet mission to the UN. That was part of a three-year reduction in the Soviet UN staff demanded by the administration. Officials would not comment on whether the five Americans were intelligence officers, but insist that they had done nothing improper, meaning they were not caught in any act of espionage. Some administration officials believe this is a test of wills between the US and the Soviet Union over what kind of intelligence presence each side will allow. 'In any case,' said one official, 'the Soviet action is illegitimate and shouldn't go without a response.' I'm Jim Angle in
Washington." The citizens of the troubled African nation of Mozambique are in shock tonight and waiting to hear who will be leading their country in the coming months. The leader of that southern African country Samora Machel died last night as his plane apparently attempted a crash landing inside South Africa just half a mile from the Mozambican border. Twenty-eight others also died in the crash. The death of Machel and the location of the crash have raised serious questions about South Africa's possible role in the crash, and about the future stability of the region. NPR's John Madison has more from Johannesburg. President Machel died within a few minutes drive from the place that he and South African President P.W. Botha made famous, Nkomati, the village that gave its name to a historic nonaggression pact between the white minority government and its black Marxist neighbor in 1984. twenty-eight people are believed to have died in the crash last night. Only ten survived; all but one are in serious condition. Bodies were strewn around the plateau on which the President's jet appears to have tried to make a forced landing. In the wreckage, only the tail of the fuselage is identifiable as the remains of an airplane. Most of the dead were senior members of Machel's government, and one was Zaire's Ambassador to Mozambique. With news of the crash, suspicion was immediately cast on South Africa. The war of words between the two has escalated in recent weeks bringing relations to an all-time low since the Nkomati Accord was signed two years ago. The timing of the tragedy could hardly have been worse for regional stability. The past two weeks have seen escalating South Africa charges and threats against Mozambique. On October 6, a land mine exploded in South Africa near the border, injuring six South African soldiers. Two days later South Africa's Defense Minister warned Machel that South Africa would fight with everything at its disposal. He pointedly said Machel held the fate of Nkomati Accord in his hands. Then ten days ago, South Africa announced it was barring Mozambique's sixty-three thousand workers from South Africa, thus cutting off Mozambique's main supply of foreign exchange. South Africa's outlawed African National Congress today blamed South Africa for being directly of indirectly responsible for the crash. They pointed out that South Africa has backed the Mozambique resistance movement of Ronomo, which was currently conducting a military offense against the Mozambique government. They said either South Africa or Renamo caused the crash. Renamo, for its part, denied this responsibility but made no bones about its pleasure at Machel's demise. "The death of President Machel removes the main obstacle to peace," a spokesman for Ronomo in Lisbon said. "And he was personally running a war against us. We are happy to hear of his death." The anti-apartheid United Democratic Party Front spokesman Murphy Moroby said the South African government would have to prove it was not involved. The South African government says international investigators are welcome to assist in the investigation. Whatever caused the crash, leaders in the region are scrambling to understand its consequences. Machel was a charismatic leader, who brought his
country to independence in 1975. And there is no obvious successor. Mozambique is one of the weakest of South Africa's immediate neighbors. And there are questions about whether Machel's ruling party FRELIMO can remain in power without him. I'm John Madison in Johannesburg. In New York City's Lincoln Center this week, applause and just a few boos for this year's New York Film Festival. In its twenty-four year history, the festival has played host to the American premiers of such films as The Last Picture Show , Last Tango in Paris and Chariots of Fire . It has also given an exposure to hundreds of foreign and low-budget movies which might otherwise have gone unnoticed in this country. This year's schedule includes both obscure films and movies which seem destined for commercial success. Film critic Bob Mondello has been in attendance this week and he says, "A more accurate title for the event might have been 'the New York Film Critics' Festival.'" "Critics don't usually travel in packs. There are three hundred of us at this thing, and everybody is watching the film at once. And it's a kind of strange to be hearing them reacting as human beings rather than seeing these things in individuals screenings." "Do the critics then get to talk with the people who actually made the film? Is that the point of the festival?" "Well, that's kind of it. I think the most interesting thing should be those interviews afterwards. But critics are not, by nature, social beings sometimes. And when they're sitting down in a large group, you kind of ... you're torn between wanting to ask some probing questions and ask something really silly. And sometimes the questions they ask are very strange. For instance, David Burn of Talking Heads, the rock group, has made a movie called True Stories . Now, it's his first picture. He might conceivably have some interesting things to say about music and movies. He might conceivable have some interesting things to say about being a newcomer to movie-making. But for some reason, someone asked him about a scene where some of his actors get dipped in chocolate. So he ended up doing a couple of minutes on something that's not really his field, a substance called bentonite." "It has the chemical consistency of chocolate, but it's a lot cheaper and it'll flow without being heated up. So you don't scald yourself when you jump into it. It's a curious liqueur that was ... They use if they pump it down into ... when they drill for oil, and it brings up the loose grave and things, because it's heavier than rock. It's also used to thicken the filling in jelly donuts." "Now, that's probably more than you ever thought you'd want to know about that particular aspect of film-making." "It's nice to have that technical not. David Burn had the film When Talking Had Stopping Making Sense ,the documentary, a couple of years ago. He had a lot to do with the production of that. Does this one, which apparently is a feature film, does it work? What are the reviews?" "Well, I'm not ... the film hasn't actually opened anywhere yet. We're ... the critics saw it the other day. It's pretty good. It's kind of a goofy picture. It's set in a small
town called Burgell, Texas, which doesn't actually exist. And they're having a celebration of specialness. And I think only David Burn would come up with ideas like having a fashion show that features a suit made out of Astroturf which is kind of fun." "How many films at the Festival?" "There are twenty-four and a bunch of shorts. Actually, the only thing I saw that got hissed ... the audience reaction when you're sitting with a lot of critics can be very interesting, and everyone hissed one called Girls in Suits , which was a sort of My Dinner with Andre , I guess you could call it. It was two women talking about their affairs for twenty minutes, and it was excruciating, I thought." "One of the films at the festival I'm looking forward to seeing when it comes around the country is Round Midnight , a film done with saxophone player Dexter Gordon, an American who's been living in Paris for many years." "Yea, and it's likely to be the real toast of the Festival. It's the one thing about which no one can think of anything negative to say. It is a beautiful motion picture. It's made by Bertrand Tavernier, who is just an extraordinary film-maker. And in this particular instance, it's, you know, Dexter Gordon's first film role, his first acting role, really. And he's ... it's very interesting to see him. I mean he hasn't ... You're used to hearing him play the saxophone, but you've almost never heard him speak. Let's just play a clip from it, so that you have some idea. He's a saxophonist who is killing himself with drink. And this is sort of the morning after one of those days. —Never, never again, man. Don't cry for me. Never again, Franz. —What else can I do when you are killing yourself? —I'll stop. —Stop? —I promise. —Al, you never stopped before. —I never promised anybody before. "What's really interesting is seeing him in person too, because while he's talking—he was there at a press conference afterwards—and while he's talking, he moves his fingers in the air as if he were fingering his instrument. It's fascinating thing, because he's clearly improvising his answers, and he also does that sometimes in the film. It's, it's just fascinating to see. I think that's one of the reasons that the Festival is so interesting if you're a critic." "So Round Midnight looks good. Also rare reviews so far for the Kathleen Turner film Peggie Sue Got Married , which will close, I understand the Festival on Sunday. Can you tell us from what you've seen there, are the next few months of American movie-going going to be worthwhile?" "Oh, boy. I wish I could tell from just the films at the Festival. If only ... you see, a lot of these are not terribly commercial pictures. The ones that are, like Peggie Sue Got Married —I think that's going to be a hit in the same sort of way that The Big Chill , which opened the festival a couple of years ago, was. And there are a few others like that, like Menage by Bertrand Blier which looks to be a big foreign film, and Sid and Nancy has a commercial chance. That's about Sid Vicious of the Sex Pistols. So there's a possibility. It's really hard to judge from a film festival, though. These are not, for
the most part, which you call mainstream films. As a matter of fact, that's the point of having them in the festival—to try and give them a chance with the public and get the awareness up." "But a few great winners to see, anyway. Thanks, Bob Mondello, talking with us in New York."
---
Lesson32
The United States declared a truce today in its diplomatic expulsion war with the Soviet Union. State Department spokesman Charles Redman said, "We hope this set of issues can now be put behind us." Redman did say that any restrictions placed on temporary American workers in Moscow would be matched by limits on Soviet workers here. He condemned the latest Soviet expulsion order, but said it's time the two governments moved on to arms control and other issues taken up by President Reagan and Soviet leader Gorbachev at their meetings in Iceland two weeks ago. President Reagan left the White House today for a two-day campaign trip. The President hopes to boost Republican Senate candidates and his first stop was in Wisconsin, where he appeared on behalf of freshman Senator Robert Castan. Mark Levine of member station WUWM reports from Milwaukee. "President Reagan came here to endorse Senator Castan who's in a close re-election race against Democrat Edward Garvey, the former chief of the National Football League Players' Union. In his speech at a GOP rally, Mr. Reagan said his name will never be on the ballot again. 'So if you want to vote for me, vote for Bob Castan, so that we can have a Republican Senate that will work with me instead of against me and be around after I'm gone. But I'm not, I'm not just asking that for me. Do it for yourself. Do it for Wisconsin. Do it for America.' Recent polls showed Senator Castan narrowly leading Garvey. Republicans here believe the President's appearance will help Castan win re-election on November 4th. For National Public Radio, this is Mark Levine in Milwaukee." The lawyer representing Eugene Hasenfus prepared today to enter a plea to charges that could send the captured flier to prison for thirty years. Hasenfus is accused of committing a terrorist act and violating Nicaraguan security by taking part in a contra supply mission. Former US Attorney-Griffen Bell is expected to arrive today in Managua to aid in Hasenfus defense. Hasenfus met for two hours today with his Nicaraguan attorney. For the past few weeks, the United States and the Soviet Union have been expelling each other's diplomats almost on a daily basis. Today, the US called a truce. NPR's Jim Angle reports.
The United States called a halt today to week-long retaliatory exchange with the Soviet Union, leaving both sides searching for ways to deal with new restrictions on their respective diplomatic mission. The tit-for-tat retaliations ended abruptly as the State Department announced that it would match some minor restrictions by the Soviets on the number of visas given for temporary personnel. But the administration did not expel any more Soviet diplomats, even though the Soviets in their last retaliation yesterday ordered the expulsion of five more Americans. State Department spokesman Charles Redman made clear that as far as the US is concerned, the matter is over. "This is our response. We hope that this set of issues can now be put behind us." Redman emphasized the most positive aspects of the retaliations and then sought to shift the focus of US-Soviet relations to more productive matters. "There seems to be common ground in the mutual acknowledgement of parity and reciprocity as the foundation of our diplomatic relationship. We need now to get on with resolution of the larger issues affecting US-Soviet relations and build on the progress made in the discussions at Reykjavik." The common ground on reciprocity went a good bit further than the US hoped. The administration, responding to an expulsion of five Americans last Sunday, ordered out an equal number of Soviet diplomats on Tuesday. And at the same time, the US said that it was permanently reducing the size of the staff at the Soviet Embassy and Consulate in the US to equal the number of Americans now stationed in the Soviet Union. And the administration expelled fifty Soviet diplomats to get the Soviet Union down to that level immediately. American officials said all fifty-five Soviets expelled this week were spies, the same allegation the US made against the twenty-five Soviets it expelled from their UN mission in September. The Soviets retaliated yesterday in a way that left the US no corresponding action to take. They withdrew all the Soviet citizens working for the US Embassy in Moscow and the Consulate in Leningrad, a total, the Soviets said, of two hundred sixty. Those people are the maids, cooks, drivers, mechanics and translators for the Embassy staff in the Soviet Union. The Soviets, by contrast, rely almost exclusively on Soviet citizens assigned to the US for the same kind of work. State Department spokesman Redman acknowledged the Soviet action will make things more difficult for our diplomats in the Soviet Union. "We expect that there will have to be some fairly substantial changes in our staffing patterns, as we need personnel to take up the tasks previously performed by others. And there will undoubtedly be some short-term adjustment problems. And over the long term we will have a different look in Moscow." The administration wanted to force a different look on the Soviet presence in the United States as well. Officials yesterday said the US expulsions had decapitated Soviet intelligence in the United States. Said one official, "It was a crushing blow that eliminated the top leadership of Soviet intelligence here and means the end of an era for Soviet intelligence in the United States," Officials said reduction in Soviet diplomatic staff would also reduce the overall Soviet intelligence presence in the United States. And they said it would create dissension between the Soviet diplomatic ranks and the intelligence services as they compete for a shrinking
number of positions in the US. But the Soviets showed yesterday they could force some equally difficult choices on the Americans. The administration must now decide, for instance, whether it must displace some diplomats or intelligence officers in order to make room for maids and mechanics, jobs that were previously held by Soviets. Now they must be done by Americans who count toward the overall total of official Americans permitted to serve in the USSR. Charles Redman conceded that will have some impact on the US ability to keep track of things there. "Without question, there's going to be some change in our ability to monitor what happens in the Soviet Union. This is something that we foresaw as we went into this. As a consequence, we're prepared to cope with it." Other officials said yesterday the US Embassy in Moscow is now larger than it has ever been. "Historically," said one official, "the US staff in the Soviet Union has been somewhere between one hundred seventy-five and two hundred, but for a number of reasons," the official said, "it had grown recently to two hundred fifty-one." Sources denied that it was in anticipation of this week's events, but suggested it will make the adjustment a little easier. So as the dust settles, the Soviets are left with a substantially smaller presence in the United States, which administration officials say will make it a little easier to clamp down on Soviet intelligence activities. But the administration, which has placed great value on being firm, if not tough, with the Soviets, found this week that is a two-way street. US officials concerned with monitoring and combating Soviet intelligence activities think the trade-off of more difficult conditions for American diplomats in exchange for a more hostile environment for Soviet intelligence here is worth it. But it remains to be seen if the Soviet retaliation will have an equal impact on the United States. I'm Jim Angle in Washington. Who am I really? What is reality for that matter? In fact, what is matter, or time, or cause and effect? These are old questions asked and answered again and again by philosophers and scientists. They were still asking them over the weekend at a Nature of Reality Conference at Colorado State University. They talked about quantum theory, relativity and the new physics, discoveries in atomic science that cast new light on old questions or maybe just add to the list. One speaker was Fritchoff Kapra. A few year ago he wrote The Tao of Physics , a book which linked the findings of modern science with ancient eastern philosophies. It set off a wave of interest in how our most common notions about reality break down in the world of the very small. "Let's talk about an electron which is sort of, you know, the smallest entity we know. And we have the tendency of picturing it somewhat like a grain of sand. Well, this is very wrong. It's not an isolated entity. It's not a grain of sand. It cannot be said to exist even in a certain place at a definite time. It's a sort of, you know, very nebulous entity seemingly which requires a whole new set of concepts and ideas to be described. What emerged in the last fifteen years is that the new world view that came out of modern physics is in fact not limited to physics, but is emerging now also
in the other sciences, in biology, in psychology, in the social sciences. And it is best, it is best described by calling it a systems view." "Could you give us an example?" "Let's talk about medicine, for instance. Conventional Western medicine is based on Descartes' view of the human body as a machine, in fact, as a clock-work. And when a clock doesn't function, you look for the single part that has broken down and you, by an act of intervention, you replace that part. This is what doctors do now, in terms of physical intervention through surgery or chemical intervention through drugs. The new kind of view would be seeing the human organism as an integrated whole which has physical aspects, biological aspects, but also psychological aspects and which is imbedded in a natural environment and in a social and emotional environment." "Now going back to physics for one minute, what do we see on the atomic level that gets us to that same place?" "Nothing. Physics cannot be used as the basis for the new world view. You cannot understand a living organism in terms of physics alone. Of course, it does satisfy the laws of physics, because it is also, you know, made of physical constituents like molecules and atoms. But in order to understand life, and therefore in order to understand health, you have to have a broader framework." "Could you give just a couple of examples?" "The shift from the part to the whole was maybe the central development in quantum theory when physicists recognized that subatomic particles cannot be seen as isolated entities, but rather have to be seen as interconnections in a web of relationships. The other one, a very dramatic development, was Einstein's discovery that mass is nothing but a form of energy. Mass does not measure a certain material substance but measures activity or process, and therefore a very dramatic shift from thinking in terms of substance and structure to thinking in terms of process." "It seems to me that there are hundreds, thousand, tens of thousands of people on college campuses, going to conferences who are utterly fascinated by implications of some connection between the way we view the cosmos, between philosophy, between religion and physics. But most of these people and most of their ideas in the mainstream society are considered somewhat on the fringe. Why is that?" "Einstein was very much considered on the fringe. Beethoven was considered on the fringe. Mozart was considered on the fringe. This always happens with new creative ideas, and the world view that emerged from modern physics is really something radically new and is something very disturbing." "What is the thought that is most uncomfortable?" "Even more disturbing to physicists than to people outside of science is the fact that there are no well defined isolated objects, that we are all imbedded in a network of relationships where what you call an object depends very much how you look at it. Furthermore, that this network is not static, but is in continual process. So it is the relativity and the impermanence of existence. Now this is very disturbing, because it leads you to recognize the impermanence of your own existence, the illusion that we are a well defined, you know, isolated self that we have a well defined, isolated ego. And this is very disturbing to many people. It is not disturbing to people typically in
spiritual traditions. To Buddhists, for instance, this is the very foundation of Buddhist thinking and Buddhist living. But to most Westerners, it is extremely disturbing." Physicist Firtchoff Kapra heads the Elmwood Institute in Berkeley, California.
---
Lesson33
Britain apparently failed today in its efforts to persuade its European allies to take joint action against Syria for its alleged role in sponsoring international terrorism. But the US government insisted it was continuing to assess the situation and considering further actions. NPR's Elizabeth Colton reports." Here in Washington, State Department spokesman Charles Redman emphasized that the American action of withdrawing its Ambassador from Damascus represented a strong signal and was not at all a routine or normal procedure as the Syrian Foreign Minister described it yesterday. 'To define what we did, withdrawing one's ambassador is, in diplomatic terms, an extremely serious measure, a sign of great displeasure with a country's policies.' But Redman skirted the issue of why the US had not taken stronger action against Syria now as the American military did against Libya last April. 'We've often said in the past that we're not on some sort of automatic pilot in the case of any of these questions. And finally, that we're in the process of consulting with the British and our allies on what other steps may now be appropriate.' The State Department has sent the head of its anti-terrorism office, Ambassador Paul Bremmer, to London to coordinate any further Western action against Syria. I'm Elizabeth Colton in Washington." In Nicaragua today, former US Attorney General Griffin Bell proposed a prisoner swap to free American Eugene Hasenfus. Hasenfua is on trial in a people's tribunal for allegedly shipping supplies to contra rebel forces. Bell suggested trading Hasenfus for nineteen Nicaraguans held in US jails. All but one of the Nicaraguans is imprisoned on drug charges. Bell says he isn't sure the US or Nicaragua will accept the proposed deal. A former air force enlisted man has been arrested for allegedly trying to sell information to the Soviets. The Justice Department said today that Allen John Davies was arrested in San Francisco while trying to deliver the plans of an air force reconnaissance project to men he thought were Soviets. Davies faces up to life in jail if convicted. Today in Luxembourg, Britain pushed for sanctions against Syria. At a meeting of the European community, British Foreign Minister Sir Jeffrey Howe called for a collective response against Syria which Britain accuses of involvement in an attempted airline
bombing in London. From Luxembourg, the BBC's Clifford Smith reports. Sir Jeffrey Howe is not asking his European partners to do exactly as Britain did, for instance, to break off diplomatic relations with Syria. He is asking, however, for what he calls a clear collective response, something that will tell Syria that its behavior is unacceptable to all twelve. On this point, he seems to have found reluctance among at least some ministers. But he also seems to have been taking a very firm line. At one moment, he pointedly reminded the meeting that only last month he had called an emergency meeting of the twelve Ministers of the Interior at French request and that that meeting had not only declared solidarity with France against the terrorist bomb attacks in Paris, but had produced what he called 'useful and practical results.' Sir Jeffrey's implication was clear. France, he thinks, should not now be hanging back, but should help in getting similar results from this meeting in Luxembourg. The certain ideas which are said to be at the forefront of discussion here among the twelve have not yet been officially revealed. But there are indications they may include the banning or restriction of flights to or from Damascus and the reduction of embassy staffs. Against this, some Ministers are clearly putting the point that it would not be good for the prospects of Middle East peace to isolate Syria too much. Since everyone here agrees that Syria has a necessary role in that process. The BBC's Clifford Smith reporting from Luxembourg. News analyst Daniel Shore says that Britain's evidence linking Syria to the attempted bombing places the Reagan Administration in an uncomfortable situation. The Reagan Administration has been aware for months of the solid evidence that Syrian air force and intelligence organized Nezar Hindawi's attempt to blow up an El Al airliner with two hundred Americans among its three hundred and seventy-five passengers, apparently in revenge for Israel's forcing down of a Syrian plane in a search for terrorists. The case against Syria also includes the bombing of an Arab-German Friendship Club in Berlin and probable complicity in the Beirut bombing that killed two hundred and forty-one American marines. That case is at least as strong as the evidence of Colonel Quddafi's involvement in the Berlin Discotheque bombing last April, which led President Reagan to order a retaliatory bombing raid on Libya. The President, having said he would take similar action against Syria if a similar smoking gun were produced, faces the dilemma now that Britain has produced a smoking gun of how to orchestrate a response short of an attack on Syria that he has no intention of ordering. Syria raises problems that Libya did not. A sign from President Assad's ambiguous contribution to gaining freedom for hostages and his dubious role in the stagnant Middle East peace process: any use of force against Syrian territory would probably trigger a response from the Soviet Union under a treaty commitment. And an attack on a Syrian controlled Bekaa Valley, terrorist staging area in Lebanon, might jeopardize American hostages who are believed to be held in that area. And so, the administration seeks to divert attention from President Reagan's rhetoric of swift retribution, by allowing the issue to be framed by the European community in terms of verbal, diplomatic and, as an ultimate recourse, economic sanctions against Syria. The European controversy arrays Britain which provided bases for the American attack on Libya, against France,
which denied overflight rights. And yet the Reagan Administration has not even joined Britain in breaking relations with Syria, let alone pressing Europe for more vigorous action as it did in the case of Libya. The loud-mouthed Colonel Quddafi may talk more provocatively than the wily President Assad, but officials know that Syria has cost a lot more American lives. And yet, Syria is a different ball game offering America fewer safe options. But President Reagan might wish he had not made such unqualified promises of anti-terrorist reprisal. News analyst Daniel Shore. In London Jury deliberations begin tomorrow in the case of alleged Arab terrorist Nezar Hindawi. Today the judge gave his instructions to the jury. Hindawi, a Jordanian, has denied that he tried to blow up an Israeli airliner in April by planting explosives in his pregnant girl friend's luggage. Vera Frankle has a report. "During three days on the witness stand, Hindawi insisted that he believed the bag he gave Anne Murphy contained not explosives, but cocaine or heroin given him by the head of a drug syndicate in Syria. Hindawi told the jury the bag produced in court was not the one he gave his girlfriend, and he suggested the bag had been switched at the El Al check-in at Heathrow as part of a plot by Massad, the Israeli secret service to discredit Syria. Hindawi came across as an affable kind of man, often smiling and gesticulating as he gave his account. But what he said must have come as something of a surprise to the jury. They'd been told by the prosecution on the opening day of the trial that Hindawi had confessed to police that he'd come to London specifically to blow up the El Al plane on the instructions of senior intelligence officers he'd met in Damascus. In court, Hindawi said the confession was a fabrication. But the prosecution urged the jurors to look at the facts, and not to let any possible political repercussions of the case cloud their judgment. Hindawi carried a Syrian passport of a kind usually reserved for government officials. It was in a false name. He traveled to London from Damascus with a Syrian Arab airlines crew and planned to return to Syria with them hours after parting from Anne Murphy at Heathrow. He'd gone to the Syrian Embassy in London and met the Ambassador as soon as he heard the bomb had been found. Hindawi didn't dispute any of these facts, but he stuck firmly to the drug story. It didn't appear to cut much ice with the judge, however. In his summation, he drew the jury's attention to a list of names of contacts allegedly drawn up by Hindawi in custody. Among them was that of General Mohammed Alcooly, head of Syrian Air Force Intelligence who's described by sources in London as President Assad's closest advisor and head of Syria's National Security Council. How, the judge asked the jury, did those names get on that piece of paper? No doubt about it, that's his handwriting. The judge recalled the prosecution's point that if the El Al jumbo had blown up in mid-air, there would have been no evidence of Syrian involvement, or Hindawi's involvement either. It might have all worked out smoothly if Hindawi hadn't panicked when the explosives were found and fled to the Syrian Embassy. He would have been back in Syria within hours. The judge urged the jury not to rush their decision. Clearly, if the jury returns a verdict of 'guilty,' the British government will have to provide a speedy answer to the question that's been on
many minds throughout the three-week trial; what to do about Syria. Strong diplomatic action will be inevitable, because as one British commentator put it, 'Syria will stand more conclusively convicted of terrorism than Colonel Quddafi has ever been.' For National Public Radio, I'm Vera Frankle in London."
---
Lesson34
Today the Surgeon General unveiled a new pamphlet about AIDS, calling for sex education in the schools in an effort to slow the epidemic. NPR's Richard Harris has details. "Surgeon General C.Everett Coop has been closely affiliated with the Right to Life Movement, and other organizations that oppose sex education in schools. Until today, the Surgeon General had made no major statement about AIDS; so his recommendations are somewhat of a departure. 'AIDS education must start at the lowest grade possible as part of any health or hygiene program. And there is no doubt that we need sex education in schools and that it includes information on sexual practices that may put our children at risk for AIDS.' He said the Federal Government should allocate more money for AIDS education. Coop also recommended the use of condoms. He said that even religious groups that oppose contraception agree that condoms are needed in the fight against AIDS. Coop added that quarantines and mass blood screening campaigns are unnecessary. His guidelines are published in a pamphlet available through the mail from the Department of Health and Human Services. I'm Richard Harris in Washington. Attorney General Edward Meese today announced a nationwide crackdown on the pornography industry. Meese said he is committed to redoubling the federal effort to pursue with a vengeance and prosecute to the hilt the criminal elements trafficking in obscenity. The Attorney General also announced the formation of an obscenity task force of federal prosecutors and the creation of an information center to assist state and local authorities. Meese said legislation will be introduced next year to outlaw dial-a-porn services that are found to be obscene and attack obscene cable television programming . Economic output was 2.4% higher in the third quarter. The modest increase in the gross national product was spurred primarily by a 42 billion-dollar surge in consumer spending. More than half of that is the result of increased car sales. Analysts warned that consumers may have spent more than expected last quarter, which could lead to weak demand in the next two quarters. Real GNP in adjusted 1982 dollars rose to more than 3.5 trillion dollars. Today the Surgeon General of the United States made his first major public statement
about AIDS. He called for sex education in schools, and he suggested more direct ways to prevent AIDS. Many public health officials have been making these same recommendations for years. But as NPR's Richard Harris reports, the statements are something of a departure for the Surgeon General. When Dr. C. Everett Coop was appointed Surgeon General in 1981, critics were worried that his ties to fundamentalist religion and his involvement in the Pro-Life movement would interfere with his medical advice to the nation. But today, Coop risked offending that constituency as he released a report on AIDS. "AIDS education must start at the lowest grade possible as part of any health or hygiene program. And there is no doubt that we need sex education in schools and that is includes information on sexual practices that may put out children at risk for AIDS." Coop's report is in the form of a pamphlet. And in that pamphlet, sex education in school isn't the only controversial issue Coop confronted. The new pamphlet also speaks openly about homosexuality and avoids value judgments about it. The pamphlet recommends the use of condoms to prevent the spread of the disease. "When I'm talking about condoms, I am talking as a health officer about the protection of a person through the passage of a virus in sexual contact. The fact that those condoms are also used in other circumstances to prevent procreation and to practice birth control makes it a difficult subject. But in talking with even religious groups that are concerned about the use of condoms for the prevention of procreation, they agree with me that the threat of AIDS to the health of this nation is sufficiently great so that we can suggest that this is an acceptable method of protection health." Alluding to a controversial ballot proposition in California, Coop also spoke out against quarantines and mass blood screenings. The pamphlet also reassures the public that AIDS isn't spread by insects or through causal contact. It discourages the use of illegal intravenous drugs, but it does speak to drug abusers and advises them to avoid sharing dirty needles. Coop said that the federal government will need to spend more money on education about AIDS, and he said his office has no budget to launch and education campaign. But when he was asked whether he had the support of the Secretary of Education, Coop replied, "Let's say I have his ear." Surgeon General Coop said he hoped that his pamphlet will launch a new campaign to combat AIDS. Copies are available from the Department of Health and Human Services. This is Richard Harris in Washington. There have been over the ages many models of the mind. The mind is an empty vessel, waiting to be filled; or the mind is a machine, breaking down sometimes. Nowadays, the mind is often described as being a computer, processing information. Writer and social theorist Theodore Rozak disputes that model in his book The Cult of Information . He says that the word is over-used, and the mind works more by juggling ideas than sifting through information. In fact, says Rozak, some of the most important ideas have no information at all.
"The example I use most prominently in the book is one that should be of ... familiar enough to all Americans: 'All men are created equal.' Very powerful idea, has absolutely no connection with information. The people who developed that idea and used it for revolutionary purposes were not drawing upon some body of research, some facts and figures about the whole human race. That's not what that idea is based upon. It's based upon experience and upon moral vision. And there are so many ideas like that, and I try to remind people, in this critique, that most of what's going through their mind when they're thinking most of the time, the run of ideas that they've learned from the cradle on up, many of which are matters of wisdom, of judgment, of insight, of intuition that have nothing to do with facts and figures or with information." "You write on page 213, you say, 'What I am suggesting is that in little things and big, the mind works more by way of Gestalt than by algorithmic processes. That is because our life as a whole is made up of the hierarchy of projects, some trivial and repetitive, some special and spectacular. Pondering choices, making projects: these are the mind's first order of business. This is so obvious, so basic that perhaps we are only prompted to reflect upon it when a different idea about thinking is presented, such as that thought is connecting data points in formal sequences." "What I'm trying to defend is the idea that thinking takes place on many levels. And the lowest level of all is data processing or information processing. And it worries me if we try to sell people on the idea, and especially kids in the classroom that what they are doing when they are thinking is essentially something that should be modeled upon what a computer does. Well, I think that's a disaster because it is lowering the capacities of the human mind to the lowest levels of thinking rather than acquainting kids gracefully and critically with all the higher levels of thinking that we normally go through in the course of every day of our life." "All right. There are things that are subjective. There are things like creativity and intuition. But suppose that our experience of those things that is what we experience on the subjective level; on another level, the level that scientists study, these things are in fact productions and outcomes of conscious computational processes." "As a hypothesis, it's perfectly respectable. The problem is that people working in the field of artificial intelligence have found themselves, willingly or not, linked to a piece of machinery, a computer which they use as their model. I think this has had a very corrupting influence upon people working in the academies, in the field of artificial intelligence. It links them with a massive vested economic interest in our society which is out to sell computers for every purpose you can think of, from string recipes in your kitchen at home to running the Star Wars anti-ballistic missile defensive system. "And yet, if you muck about with people who are doing artificial intelligence, some of the discussions are the most fascinating discussions I've ever had in my life." "The people in artificial intelligence have been making promises of the highest level for a very long period of time and always telling us that the great breakthrough in their field is going to happen within the next few years, three years, five years, something of that sort. You know, my question to the people in that field is a very
simple one, you know. Deliver the goods, show us that you can do it. And my suspicion is that it can't be done, because they're using the wrong model of the human mind. Well, we could go on disputing that academically for a very long period of time. The fact is they're already involved in selling that idea to the public as a form of machinery out there in the world." Theodore Rozak is author of The Cult of Information : The Folklore of Computers and the True Art of Thinking .
---
Lesson35
The Senate is in the midst of its first impeachment trial in more than half a decade. Senators are hearing arguments in the case of Nevada Judge Harry Claiborne, a convicted tax evader, who has refused to give up his seat on the Federal bench. Linda Wertheimer has more. "The prosecutors are members of the House of Representatives, presenting the case for impeachment to the Senate, the defense Judge Claiborne and his attorneys. Judge Claiborne's attorney makes the argument that although Claiborne plainly did fail to pay the income tax he owed, he did not willfully evade tax. He made a mistake. Further, that the federal prosecutors who brought the case against him were engaged in a vendetta to remove the judge from the bench. The prosecutors from the House argue in return that the government's conduct is not on trial, Judge Claiborne's is; that the evidence against him which resulted in his conviction is sufficient to convict him here as well. The Senate has set aside two days for this trial. I'm Linda Wertheimer at the Capitol." A House committee issued a report on the shuttle Challenger disaster today. In it, the panel blames pressure to fly the shuttles twice a month for the accident that killed seven astronauts. And it says that pressure still exists within NASA, endangering future flights of the shuttle program. NASA today postponed the rollout of the space shuttle Atlantis onto the launch pad, at Cape Canaveral, Florida. Rain and lightning storms were in the area and the Space Agency decided not to take a chance moving the shuttle. It's scheduled for seven weeks of tests, including some to check out an astronaut escape system. The rollout has been rescheduled for Thursday. (Editor's note: There seems to be a mistake in the first news item. "More than half a decade" in the first sentence should be "more than half a century." Please compare "Section Two" and "Supplementary Reading.") The first impeachment proceeding in the United States Senate in fifty years began today, the trial of Federal Judge Harry E. Claiborne of Nevada. Judge Claiborne is a convicted felon, now serving a prison term for income tax evasion. He has refused to resign from the bench and has demanded a trial in the Senate, the only constitutional means of removing a federal judge from office. NPR's Linda
Wertheimer is following that trial. Early this morning, the presiding officer of the Senate, who was at that time Senator Charles Grassley, Republican of Iowa, summoned Senators to a historic occasion, a trial in the Senate. The Senate will now proceed, he said, as a court of impeachment. "The Sergeant at Arms will make the proclamation." "All persons are commanded to keep silence, on pain of imprisonment while the House of Representatives is exhibiting the Senate of the United States articles of impeachment against Judge harry E. Claiborne." That was the Sergeant at Arms, Ernest Garcia, who then rang the bells for the Senators to appear for a live quorum. At least fifty-one members of the Senate must be present during this trial. As the Senators filed in, they saw sitting at long tables in the well of the Senate the prosecution and the defense. The prosecutors are members of the House who exhibit in the constitutional term the articles of impeachment to the Senate. The defense, Judge Claiborne and his attorneys, including a former Senator, Howard Cannon of Nevada. The two tables face the one hundred desks of the Senators who will serve as judge and jury in this trial. The attorney for the defense led off with some prefatory remarks. Oscar Goodman told the Senate that Judge Claiborne insisted on this trial because he believes that he is innocent. But the center of the argument made by Judge Claiborne's attorney is that the judge was rail-roaded into prison by over enthusiastic prosecution. "He has been caught in the vortex of a constitutional crisis, a situation that has to affect every member of this body, because, God forbid, it could happen to them where Judge Claiborne became victimized as a result of a vendetta of the Justice Department, and the strike force, and a special agent in charge of the FBI who came to the Nevada desert to bury the American flag there." Attorney Goodman's charge was answered in prefatory remarks again by Congressman Henry Hide of Illinois, a member of the House, in effect acting for the prosecution. "Judge Claiborne isn't here because of any alleged misconduct by the government. He's here because he was tried and convicted beyond a reasonable doubt given the presumption of innocence by a jury of twelve people. His motion for a new trial was denied, his appeal to the ninth circuit was denied, his motion for rehearing and ban was denied, and his Writ of Certiorari to the Supreme Court was denied. That's why he's here." Judge Claiborne was convicted of income tax evasion, willfully filing false returns which failed to report hundreds of thousands of dollars of income. Claiborne's defense is that he make a mistake but did not commit a crime, and further the prosecutors pursued of a vendetta against him. Members of the House argued that whatever the prosecutors' conduct, it is Claiborne who is on trial in the Senate. Congressman Peter Rodino, Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee argued that Judge Claiborne's contention that he made a mistake is simply not credible. "According to Judge Claiborne, an individual can hire the most incompetent tax preparer, participate in the most irresponsible treatment of basic tax concepts, create sales of assets that do not exist, fail even to bother to read the return, enjoy a refund
of thousands of dollars, and simply wait for an audit." Late in the day, Judge Claiborne spoke in his own defense. "I wanted to talk to you." He said to the Senators. "I wanted you to see me. I feel," he said, "like a piece of meat torn between two dogs." "I want to be honest with every member of this body. I would much rather, right today, be almost any place than here. But I knew when I was convicted that this was the place that I had to come." Claiborne told the Senate that young Turks in the Justice Department are head hunters looking for prosecutions which will gain them the most publicity. The Senate is deciding now in closed session what to do about the articles of impeachment against Judge Claiborne. Impeachment requires a two-thirds votes of the members present. I'm Linda Wertheimer at the Capitol. Most information on the movement of nuclear weapons in this country is classified for reasons of security. But some new details are becoming public that suggest that the transporting of nuclear weapons for maintenance and production is much more frequent than is generally known. NPR's David Malthus reports that on any given day, it is likely that US nuclear weapons are being transported on the nation's highways, in the air, and at sea. America's nuclear arsenal is constantly in flux. Older warheads are retired and dismantled as new ones are built. Some elements of nuclear bombs, like radio active tritium becomes stale over time and must be refurbished. There are changes in storage sites, quality control checks. This routine maintenance and production requires frequent movement of nuclear weapons and components. It is accomplished through a large transportation network that includes specially designated cargo planes of the Air Force, freighters under the control of the Navy, and a fleet of highway tractor trailer rigs operated by the Department of Energy. DOE, which oversees the production, assembly, and testing of nuclear weapons, has forty-five custom-built trucks to transport the weapons to more than one hundred military installations in twenty-two states. Headquarters for the transport operations is Albuquerque, New Mexico. Department spokesman Ben McCarty says the truck fleet logs over four million miles a year hauling their special cargo. "They'll be carrying nuclear weapons, special nuclear materials, such as plutonium or highly enriched uranium and classified non-nuclear components of nuclear weapons." Once delivered to military storage facilities, the weapons often are then transported by air or ship to bases around the world. The military, following standard practice, refuses to discuss its nuclear transportation operations. However, the Institute for Policy Studies, a liberal research group based in Washington, has used the Freedom of Information Act to obtain military documents on those operations. They were made available to NPR. Air Force Memoranda state that nuclear weapons are transported, "almost on a daily basis." The military airlift command refers to these missions as "the bully beef express." The Air Force documents show that last year the bully beef crews flew
more than a thousand nuclear weapons flights. Recently, the Navy revealed, perhaps inadvertently, in public documents, information that indicates some of its nuclear weapons are ferried across the Atlantic in commercial cargo ships operated by civilians. The ships reportedly carry a small contingent of Navy personnel for security and communications, but it appears that the freighters rely heavily on their anonymity for security. William Arkin of the Institute for Policy Studies has done intensive research on the transportation of nuclear weapons. "We live with the illusion that nuclear weapons are safely secured away, all in underground missile silos in South Dakota and Montana and Wyoming. And instead, we see a system which requires constant care and feeding, repair, constant movement, which comes into contact with the soldiers and civilian technicians on a daily basis." Arkin points out that each year, several thousand military and civilian personnel handling nuclear weapons are permanently disqualified for such duty because of alcohol abuse, use of illegal drugs, and other personal problems. But defense officials say this is a sign of the military's diligence, not danger. Of the one hundred thousand nuclear weapons handlers, about thirty-three hundred lost their clearances last year. The most disqualified in any recent year has been five thousand. But human and mechanical failures have caused serious problems in the past. The Defense Department says there have been thirty-two accidents involving nuclear weapons, the last one in 1980. At least ten caused leakage of radioactive materials. None has caused a nuclear explosion. Spokesman Ben McCarty of the Department of Energy says nuclear weapons trucks have been involved in eleven accidents over the years, mainly from icy roads which caused the trucks to flip over. But he says there's never been any danger to the public. "We have never had an accident that resulted in a release of radio-activity from one of these trucks or in any damage to the cargo in these trucks." Air Force documents show that pilots transporting nuclear weapons today are told to avoid flying over heavily populated areas to the maximum extent possible. General D.H. Cassidy of the Military Airlift Command praised the "bully beef express" for its outstanding safety record in an internal memo last year. But he also warned the crews about complacency after Air Force personnel mentioned on a non-secure telephone the nature of the cargo on two nuclear weapons flight. Military Airlift Command Regulation No. 55-141 tells the crews how to respond to a hijacking attempt. "Never allow a hostile force to capture or control a nuclear weapon," it says, "even if it means risking the lives of any hostages that might have been taken." The regulation instructs the crews on when to use CDS—the command disable system, which is attached to some nuclear weapons. "CDS," the regulation says, "internally destroys the capability of a weapon to achieve a significant nuclear yield." "As a last resort," the regulation says, "nuclear weapons must be destroyed even if it means loss of the aircraft. The department of Energy says it too takes great precautions against accidents or terrorist attacks. Spokesman Ben McCarty says the trucks that haul nuclear weapons
across the country have armor-plated cabs. The drivers are trained and equipped with a number of firearms, and the trucks are escorted by additional armed guards in cars. Ben McMarty, "We know where all the trucks are at all times, and we have both voice and data links to them. And should anything happen to the shipments, the escort vehicles are able to communicate immediately with local or state law enforcement people and the full force of the military establishment should it be required." While the Department of Energy tries to keep these shipments secret, peace groups have penetrated that secrecy repeatedly. One group, Nuke Watch, has followed the nuclear trucks thousands of miles over the last two years. Other anti-nuke activists line the roadsides and wave banners, alerting highway travellers that nuclear weapons are on the way. Sam Day, the founder of Nuke Watch says the trucks are not difficult to spot even though they are unmarked, with no warning of hazardous cargo. "The trucks are eighteen wheel semi-trailers. They look a lot like the hundreds of thousands of other semis on the road. The trailers are metal colored. They have peculiar radio antenna above the cab, which is the main way that you recognize them as H-bomb trucks." "When they spot you, do they take evasive action, try to lose you?" "They used to, yes. They used to speed up to eighty-five miles an hour, make hairpin turns and generally play cowboy with us." Sam Day says now that the Energy Department knows who they are, the truck drivers no longer go out of their way to evade the Nuke Watch shadow. The Department's Ben McMarty says Nuke Watch is more of a nuisance than anything else. "The job of driving these rigs and protecting these rigs is in itself somewhat stressful. These guys have to really, you know, at all times be on the lookout for anything unusual or any suspicious vehicles coming up on them, or things like this. And it adds to their stress load." The peace groups say they are not out to harass the truck convoys. Their purpose is to emotionalize the arms control issue. Says Nuke Watch Sam Day, "We want to bring home to people the fact that nuclear weapons are rolling through the streets and towns of America regularly." I'm David Malthus in Washington.
---
Lesson36
An arbitrator today blocked a National Football League plan to randomly test NFL players for illegal drugs. Arbitrator Richard Casher responding to a grievance filed by the NFL Players Association said the plan violates the players' contract. The Commissioner Pete Rozelle had announced the drug testing proposal in July. It called for two surprise tests during the football season, but Casher said Rozelle lacks the power to implement the plan without going through the collective bargaining process.
NASA today gave an update on its efforts to remodel space shuttle booster rockets. A faulty booster caused the shuttle Challenger to explode in January. NPR's Richard Harris has details. "NASA engineer John Thomas says the rocket testing program is progressing just about on schedule. He says redesign booster rockets should be available for a space shuttle launch in February 1988. Engineers have simulated the exact problem the caused the shuttle disaster in January. They've also started testing the remodeled components. Thomas admitted that testing could take longer if NASA follows the advice of independent engineers at the National Research Council. Those engineers suggested additional tests beyond what NASA has planned. But Thomas said NASA might run some of those tests after the first shuttle flight. For example, NASA might delay tests for unusually hot or cold launch conditions. He said NASA would just make sure the weather was mild at lift-off until those tests were completed. This is Richard Harris in Washington." Religious leaders from around the world joined Pope John Paul II today in a day of prayer for peace. The leaders gathered at the birthplace of Saint Francis of Assisi in Italy to pray according to their own rites. One hundred sixty people representing twelve of the world's major religions gathered today in the central Italian town of Assisi for an unprecedented day of prayer for peace. The initiative was proposed by Pope John Paul II to commemorate the United Nations' International Year of Peace. The Pontiff also appealed for a twenty-four-hour of truce in the world's conflicts, and several revolutionary groups agreed to honor the cease-fire. From Assisi, Sylvia Perjoli reports. The narrow cobblestoned streets and the pink toned medieval churches of Assisi were the backdrop today of one of the most colorful and spectacular events organized by Pope John Paul II since he assumed the Papacy eight years ago. The ceremony spanned eight hours and was divided into three parts. This morning at a basilica outside the town, the Pope received religious leaders representing Christianity, Judaism, Islam, Buddhism, Shintoism, Hinduism, as well as Sikhs, African animists, Byes, Zorastrians, Jane and native Americans. The Pope told his guests, some attired in formal religious robes, others in traditional costumes, that he chose Assisi because of its particular significance as the birthplace of Saint Francis, who is revered as a symbol of peace, reconciliation and brotherhood. For the second moment of the day, each religious delegation went to an assigned place to hold its own prayers. The Jewish delegation convened on the site of a fourteenth-century synagogue. Some groups prayed in Catholic churches, others in municipal buildings, and still others, such as the Shintoists, prayed in squares. The day's final event came this afternoon when the participants who had observed a fast marched in a procession to the square of the Basilica of Saint Francis. The delegates sat on a large podium, the Pope in the center with the Christians and Jews on his right, and the other religions on his left. The final part of the ceremony began
with each group reciting their won prayers in the presence of others. The Buddhists were first. One of the most colorful prayer services was that of the native Americans. John Pretty-on-Top and his nephew Burton of the Crow Indian tribe of Montana wore feathered headdresses and inhaled deeply from a long peace pipe which they offered the great spirit of the Mother Earth. After the prayer, young men and women distributed olive branches while a choir sang a hymn in Greek. The Pope then delivered his elocutions, in which he stressed that despite their differences, the world's religions have a common ground. "Besides, we also make the world looking at us through the media, moreover, of the responsibilities of religion regarding problems of war and peace." The ceremony ended with the release of hundreds of doves as the choir sang "Saint Francis Canticle to Father Sun and Sister Moon." As the ceremony was coming to a close, the Vatican announced that the Pope's appeal for a truce of all conflicts raging throughout the world had been widely respected. The Holy See spokesman said that after an intense diplomatic effort by the Vatican, all guerrilla groups in Latin America with the exception of Peru's Venda Luminosa and various guerrilla groups in Africa and Asia had responded favorably. In the Middle East, the warring factions in Lebanon, as well as PLO leader Yasser Arafat and Iraq's President Saddam Hussein, also welcomed the appeal. But in Mozambique, Afghanistan, Iran, Vietnam, and some of the Communist guerrillas in the Philippines did not reply or refused to observe a truce. Tomorrow it will be known if the message from the largest gathering of religions was carried out. For National Public Radio, this is Sylvisa Perjoli in Assisi. The "American Century" has become the "American Crisis," and that happened in just twenty-five years. That's the theme of David Halberstam's latest book called The Reckoning . It's the story of the Ford Motor Company and the story of Nissan, a Japanese car maker since the late 1930s. It is now a very successful importer to the US. Basically Halberstam believes the American automobile industry, Detroit since the Second World War, became a shared de facto monopoly failing to listen to congress, failing to notice Japan, and mostly failing, he says, because the car companies came under the control of the financial people rather than the car people. David Halberstam talks with us now about one very important year in auto biz, 1964, and about several important people, beginning with Yutaca Catayama of Nissan. "Catayama, who is a kind of exuberant, somewhat aristocratic man, was very frustrated. At home in Tokyo, there seemed to be no place for him in the company. He loved making cars. He was on the wrong side politically, and that's a very political company. And so he was almost exiled to America on the assumption that selling cars in America would be a sure place: if you wanted someone to fail, that's what you would do. And he came here, and he loved America. I mean, he was more at home, oddly enough, in America than he was in Japan. In the beginning he would almost, I
mean, sell cars hand by hand. He would go to the Japanese gardeners in Los Angeles and sell these little pick-up trucks and he found these, you know, almost used car dealers whom he convinced to be Nissan dealers, and he would hand ... he'd drive the cars down to their lots, and he got to know the business, and just it began to surface in '64. That's a very important demarcation point, 1964." "You mention the pick-up trucks they were trying to sell on the west coast. It is funny the correspondence back and forth between the west coast and Tokyo that the Japanese in Tokyo don't believe that Americans should be riding in pick-up trucks as passenger vehicles and refuse to accommodate some design changes." "Well, factories in those days were not very technologically advanced. I mean, they have this wonderful work force, and they have this enormous ambition and this willingness as to pay a high price. But their cars were very primitive really, like American cars in the '30s. But the truck they were building was like a small tank and was very inexpensive, and they were started selling on the west coast. And for the first couple years, the little truck was what carried the company. I mean that's where they made their inroads. And Catayama kept saying, 'You know, you don't under ...' to the home-office. 'You don't understand Americans. They drive the truck, I mean, pick-up truck. That's a car for them, I mean, they'll work in it, and they'll play in it; they'll go to the bank in it; they'll go to a drive-in movie in it. Can we put some air conditioner? Can we make it more comfortable? Can we put in a radio?' And Tokyo kept saying, you know, 'No, no, no, no. It should not be used for those things. We want the Americans just to drive it as a truck.' You know Catayama just had a feeling that they were losing all these sales. He mostly did not win the battle on the truck, but he won a lot other battles." "Talking about '64, just about the time the Japanese car workers had begun to be able to afford the Japanese car and much earlier in your book, writing about the original Henry Ford, you talk about the time that Ford decided to pay his employees five dollars a day, as been an incredibly revolutionary time in American labor history." "I think that he revolutionized the economy and the idea of the worker as the consumer. I mean if there is a thing called the "American Century,' it is also a thing called the 'Oil Century.' The two are the same, and the coming of the first Henry Ford with the Model T at the very beginning of the century, at the very same time when you have these huge oil gushers down in the Southwest—its spindle top which supplies the inexpensive energy—you begin to get the oil culture. And then very quickly you have small gas engines, and you have items which are consumer items. What Henry ford did was bring mass production and finally create a cycle in which, for the first time, in the industrial would, the worker was also a consumer. And when he paid for the first time five dollars a day, everybody else in the industrial sector jumped on his back, you know, and said, 'he was ruining us.' This would, you know cause all kinds of social chaos, that workers couldn't handle that much money. But he was very skillfully creating this cycle, and he knew that he could build this many cars, but there's no sense in building them if people couldn't buy them. And the worker became the consumer." "Let me ask you for an explanation of this man. His name is Kadsundo Kohamu. This
is a Japanese name given ... taken by an American." "Yes, his name ... well, that means William the Conqueror, I believe, in rough translation. His real name—he was born, I suppose, well, in the other century—is a man named William Reagan Gorham. And he was a wonderful tinker that the kind that we were producing in the very beginning of the twentieth century, men who just loved this moment of explosion of machinery. He was like a Henry Ford, who came along a few years after Ford. In fact, the original Henry Ford was his God. And he was trying to ... and he invented everything; he could do almost everything. And frustrated in America, because there seemed to be no place for him, he went over to Japan to ... originally to design airplanes during World War I. Loved it there. Became kind of a sort of industrial or mechanical missionary there. And he would invent motorized little vehicles. He invented the diesel engines, airplanes, and finally, he really was, in all respects, the inventor of the first Datsun car. I mean, the intriguing thing that this American, because the Japanese are so good at absorbing other people' knowledge, he invented the first Datsun. He came to love Japan. I mean, for him, it was a country loved many of the values, systems of the respect for work, the cleanliness, whatever the country. And he was honored there. He was never interested in making very much money. As Would War II began to approach, he became very melancholy, because he saw his adopted country and his native country about to do go war. He argued, without very much success, on both sides to ... in ways that would sort of cut off the growing confrontation. And on the very eve, he took up Japanese citizenship, this name and told his then colleague sons to go back to America before it was too late. And he is buried there. It is an extraordinary life. David Halberstam. His book is called The Reckoning .
---