M: Hello, everyone! Welcome back to EnglishPod! My name is Marco. 
E: And I’m Erica. 
M: And today we’re bringing you a very… I would say, embarrassing lesson for us men. 
E: Right, embarrassing for men, but, I think, uh, it’s okay for women. 
M: Hehe. That’s right. We’re gonna be talking about buying underwear, specifically women’s 
underwear. 
E: Right, so, um, obviously not the favorite thing for men to do. 
M: Well, apart from being a little bit uncomfortable, it’s also boring. [NOTE: apart from = 
besides] 
E: Yeah, it involves shopping, right? 
M: Involves shopping, so we… we’re not really big on that. 
E: Alright, but… well, even though it might be a little bit of an uncomfortable, um, topic, 
there’s some great language in here, isn’t there? 
M: Yeah, there’s some really good words and, of course, ah… the different types of 
underwear, that we’re gonna be looking at. 
E: Yeah. 
M: But we also have some words that we’re gonna take a look at before we get into our 
dialogue, so let’s start with vocabulary preview. 
Voice: Vocabulary preview. 
E: Well, we’re gonna look at two words that will appear in our dialogue. And the first one is 
lingerie. 
M: Lingerie. 
E: Lingerie. 
M: Okay, so, lingerie. This is a nice fancy word. 
E: Uhu. 
M: Basically for underwear, right? 
E: Right, for women’s underwear. 
M: Women’s underwear. 
E: Yeah. 
M: So, lingerie, but it’s very nice, very… 
E: Like pretty sexy. 
M: Sexy underwear. 
E: Yeah, yeah. Now, the spelling of this word is interesting, isn’t it? 
M: Yeah, it’s spelled L-I-N-G-E-R-I-E. 
E: Lingerie. 
M: Lingerie. 
E: Yes, don’t you love English spellings? 
M: Hehe. So, women’s nice, pretty sexy underwear. 
E: That’s right. And our second word, awkward. 
M: Awkward. 
E: Awkward. 
M: Awkward. 
E: So, this is a feeling that men have, especially when they’re buying women’s underwear. 
M: Well, yeah, you feel a little bit uncomfortable… 
E: Yeah. 
M: Or it’s a strange situation. 
E: Or weird… 
M: Yeah. 
E: Or out of place. [NOTE: out of place = inappropriate] 
M: It’s awkward. 
E: Yes. Alright, so, we’re gonna be hearing both of these two words in the dialogue. Now, 
Marco, where are we here? 
M: We’re gonna be at a department store at the section, where they have women’s, uh, 
lingerie and we have a guy buying underwear for his girlfriend. 
E: Alright, well, let’s find out what happens. 
A: This sucks; I hate buying lingerie. Okay, just find
something and get out of here. Alright, these are
fine. Oh, no, don’t come over here, don’t come
over here.
B: You look a little lost, can I help you?
A: Um, I’m just having a look around. It’s my girl-
friend’s birthday tomorrow. I’m trying to find her
something.
B: Well, you can’t give her granny panties. Have
you thought about getting her some sleepwear?
We’ve got these lovely, silky nighties. Or, how
about a nice panty-and and-bra set. Look, here’s
a nice satin push-up bra, and you can choose a
few different styles of undies to go with it.
A: Sure that’s fine.
A: This is so awkward...what ones do I pick? What
size is she?
B: Well, do you want a thong, some bikini briefs,
maybe this nice pair of lacy boy shorts?
A: Just pick something and get the hell out of here.
A: Um, I’ll go with these two.
A: This is mortifying; I just want to get this over with.
She better thank me for this...
Here you are, sir. I’m sure she’ll enjoy them.
B: Finally!
A: I’m sorry, sir. I’m going to have to take a look
inside your bag.
 
E: Oh, the poor guy, I totally feel bad for him. 
M: Yeah, he was really nervous and, of course, it was very uncomfortable for him. 
E: I know and then the security guard shows up and… 
M: Hehe. Exactly. But we have an opportunity to take a look at some really great words and 
phrases, so let’s start off with our first on in “language takeaway”. 
Voice: Language takeaway. 
E: Alright, we’re gonna look at words here that mostly have to do with underwear, 
describing underwear.  
M: Right. 
E: And the first one is granny panties. 
M: Granny panties. 
E: Granny panties. 
M: This isn’t like a real, real word, right? It’s not something that you find in the dictionary. 
E: No, it’s a slang word, um, and we use it to describe really big, ugly underwear like your 
grandmother would wear. 
M: Alright, so, they’re not like the sexy little underwear. 
E: No. 
M: It’s more like long and it’s not very appealing ??? [NOTE: appealing = attractive] 
E: Just picture what your grandmother would wear. 
M: Hehe. No. 
E: Hehe. 
M: Alright, so, granny panties. 
E: So, obviously, uh, this guy doesn’t want to be buying any of those, but the saleswoman 
suggests that he try some sleep wear. 
M: Sleep wear. 
E: Sleep wear. 
M: Sleep wear. Okay, so, sleep wear. 
E: Obviously, clothes you wear when you’re sleeping. 
M: Now, this is really interesting, because men aren’t really that complicated when they 
come to sleeping. Just… throw on a t-shirt and that’s it. [NOTE: throw on = put on 
quickly] 
E: Well, obviously, for women there’re more options an… and more different things you can 
chose from, so… 
M: Okay. 
E: It’s a whole separate category for women. 
M: I know. Even when you’re sleeping, you must wear something nice. 
E: Yes. 
M: One type of sleep wear is silky nighties. 
E: Nighties. 
M: Nighties. 
E: N-I-G-H-T-I-E-S. 
M: Okay, so, a nighty. 
E: Um, it’s basically a dress that you wear when you sleep. 
M: Okay. Now, the pronunciation is interesting, because the first five letters are night.  
E: Right. 
M: Right? But you don’t say nighT. 
E: You don’t say nighTy. 
M: You say nighDy. 
E: Yeah, you… you make the T a D. 
M: Hm. 
E: NighDy. 
M: Now, she offered him some silky nighties. 
E: Right, so, silky. Obviously, we know silk. 
M: Right. 
E: Is a soft, shiny fabric, right? 
M: Right. 
E: So, when something is silky, it’s either made from silk or it’s… 
M: The similar. 
E: Soft and shiny. 
M: Okay, so… 
E: Yeah. 
M: Some silky nighties - very soft, shiny, uh, nighties. 
E: Exactly. 
M: Okay. What about our next word? 
E: Well, the salesgirl offers different styles of undies. 
M: Undies. 
E: Undies. 
M: Undies. 
E: So, undies is an interesting word. It’s basically short for underwear. 
M: Underwear, okay. 
E: Uhu. 
M: So, you can just call underwear undies. 
E: Yes, but I think you mostly use this when you’re talking about women’s underwear. 
M: Oh, really? 
E: I mean I don’t know I would say undies when I’m talking about men’s underwear. 
M: No, I don’t think so. Maybe children’s underwear. 
E: Yeah, yeah, yeah, for children. Yep. 
M: For children, right? 
E: Yep. 
M: Okay. Alright, so, we saw some of the different types of clothing, but now, let’s take a 
look at this interesting adjective, mortifying. 
E: Mortifying. 
M: This is mortifying. 
E: Mortifying. 
M: Okay, so… when something is mortifying… 
E: Well, I think, we’ve got some examples to show you what that is like. 
Voice: Example one. 
A: And then I fell in front of everyone. It was mortifying! 
Voice: Example two. 
B: I was completely mortified, when I realized what I had done. 
Voice: Example three. 
C: It must’ve been mortifying for her, when she realized that her underwear was showing. 
M: So, basically, it’s very embarrassing. 
E: Super embarrassing. 
M: You want to die almost. 
E: Yeah. 
M: Okay. 
E: Which is… I… interesting. I mean, mort. 
M: Right, from… 
E: French. 
M: Mourir. 
E: Yeah. 
M: Uhu. 
E: Interesting. Alright, well, um, etymology, here at EnglishPod. 
M: Hehe. Alright, so, some interesting… Okay, so, we saw the different types of underwear, 
we saw this really great word for when you’re really embarrassed. 
E: Uhu. 
M: So, now, let’s take a look at some of the phrases that you would use, when you’re really 
embarrassed in “fluency builder”. 
Voice: Fluency builder. 
E: Alright, we have two phrases to look at here. And the first one – get the hell out of 
here. 
M: Get the hell out of here. 
E: Get the hell out of here. 
M: Okay, so, if I say I want to get the hell out of here… 
E: You wanna leave this place really quickly. 
M: Really quickly. Just… 
E: Yeah. 
M: I wanna leave. 
E: Right now. 
M: Now, when you’re using this… this phrase of this sentence, uh, “get the hell out of here”, 
is it really polite? 
E: No, of course not, it’s… it’s impolite. 
M: Okay, so… 
E: It’s really negative. 
M: Very negative and informal, right? 
E: Yeah, yeah. 
M: So you would use this maybe with your friends or th… like in this case think it to your 
self. 
E: Yes, but it’s not a good idea to use with your boss or your mother. 
M: Hehe. Right. 
E: Yeah. 
M: Okay. I guess, sometimes depending on the tone you use… 
E: Uh. 
M: How you say it, you can sound really angry, right? 
E: Definitely. 
M: Right, okay. 
E: Alright, well, let’s listen to some examples. 
Voice: Example one. 
A: This place is scary. Let’s get the hell out of here! 
Voice: Example two. 
B: What are you doing in my house? Get the hell out of here! 
Voice: Example three. 
C: We were at a friend’s party and all of a sudden her parents arrived. We got the hell out 
of there as quickly as possible!  [NOTE: sounds like a strong Australian accent] 
M: Alright, so, get the hell out of here. 
E: Get the hell out of here. 
M: Now, let’s take a look at our last phrase for fluency builder - get this over with. 
E: Get this over with. 
M: I want to get this over with. 
E: So, you want to finish it really quickly. 
M: But you wanna finish it because you’re not really enjoying it, right? 
E: Exactly. It… this is something that you use when the situation is negative. 
M: Is negative, okay. 
E: Yeah. 
M: In case of… I just want to get this over with. 
E: Yeah, I wanna get this test over with. I wanna get this day over with. I wanna get this… 
M: Maybe, if you’re on a bad date. I wanna get this date over with. 
E: Yes, exactly. 
M: Okay. 
E: Alright, well, interesting phrases and I think w… it would help us to hear them once more 
in context in the dialogue. 
A: This sucks; I hate buying lingerie. Okay, just find
something and get out of here. Alright, these are
fine. Oh, no, don’t come over here, don’t come
over here.
B: You look a little lost, can I help you?
A: Um, I’m just having a look around. It’s my girl-
friend’s birthday tomorrow. I’m trying to find her
something.
B: Well, you can’t give her granny panties. Have
you thought about getting her some sleepwear?
We’ve got these lovely, silky nighties. Or, how
about a nice panty-and and-bra set. Look, here’s
a nice satin push-up bra, and you can choose a
few different styles of undies to go with it.
A: Sure that’s fine.
A: This is so awkward...what ones do I pick? What
size is she?
B: Well, do you want a thong, some bikini briefs,
maybe this nice pair of lacy boy shorts?
A: Just pick something and get the hell out of here.
A: Um, I’ll go with these two.
A: This is mortifying; I just want to get this over with.
She better thank me for this...
Here you are, sir. I’m sure she’ll enjoy them.
B: Finally!
A: I’m sorry, sir. I’m going to have to take a look
inside your bag.
 
M: Alright, so, I guess the situation is very common: men either having to shop for this type 
of article for their girlfriend or wife… 
E: Uhu. 
M: Because it’s their birthday… 
E: Yeah. 
M: Or sometimes we get dragged into a store to… to buy this… 
E: So you're shopping with your girlfriend and she’s gonna make you go look at underwear 
with her. 
M: Hehe. Yeah, I usually don’t do that, though. I just, uh, go to the next section and just 
look around. 
E: Look at tools. 
M: Look at tools. 
E: Hehe. 
M: Hehe. TVs… 
E: Yeah 
M: And play stations. 
E: Yes, but you know what, I have seen some men, who go shopping with their girlfriends 
or wives and actually enjoy buying underwear. 
M: See, that’s the thing… I think i… i… it makes sense, but I don’t know how comfortable 
you’re actually be. I don’t know why. I guess it just a… how it indicates sexuality and other 
stuff. 
E: Yeah, well… 
M: I… I could do it for maybe five or ten minutes, give my professional advice… 
E: Yeah. 
M: And then I’m out of there. 
E: Alright, well, maybe those guys, who look like they’re enjoying themselves are just really 
talking in their heads… 
M: Hehe. 
E: Um, telling themselves how much they hate this. 
M: Exactly, maybe they just, uh… 
E: They’re pretending. 
M: Pretending or listening to their IPod. 
E: Well, tell us… well, guys… I know we’ve got a lot of male listeners… tell us what you 
think, um… are you embarrassed by women’s underwear? 
M: Right, or, women, why aren’t you embarrassed when you buy men’s underwear for your 
boyfriend or husband? 
E: I think there’s a lot to talk about here… 
M: Hehe. 
E: So, come to our website at englishpod.com.  
M: Right, leave you questions and comments and, of course, tell us what you think about 
this topic. 
E: Well, thanks for downloading this lesson and until next time… Good bye! 
M: Bye! 
 
