M: Hello everyone! Welcome back to EnglishPod! My name is Marco. 
E: And I’m Erica. 
M: And today we’re gonna be going to one of the least favorite places of many, many 
people. 
E: So, it must be the dentist. 
M: Exactly, that place where you have to go every six months, but you… 
E: You probably don’t go… 
M: Hehe. You probably don’t. I know, I don’t go… 
E: No… 
M: Every six months. 
E: Me neither. 
M: So, yeah, we’re gonna be going to the dentist and, of course, we’re gonna be looking at 
a lot of great vocabulary, related to teeth and all that crazy stuff dentists do. 
E: Yes, and we’ll also learn some really interesting phrases, um, so, Marco, let’s get started 
with our “vocabulary preview”. 
Voice: Vocabulary preview. 
M: Okay, in vocabulary preview today we have two words. Let’s take a look at the first one 
– toothache. 
E: Toothache. 
M: Toothache. 
E: Toothache. 
M: Okay, so, we’ve seen before this, uh… this ending “-ache”, right? 
E: Right. 
M: It means that hurts. 
E: Exactly. 
M: So, again, a toothache would be… 
E: A hurting tooth. 
M: A hurting tooth. 
E: Yes. 
M: We can also say stomachache… 
E: Uhu. 
M: Headache. 
E: Yeah. 
M: Pretty much everything can… [NOTE: pretty much = almost, basically, in most cases, 
most of the time, etc.] 
E: Ache. 
M: Ache. 
E: Yeah. 
M: Okay. 
E: So, our next word – x-ray. 
M: X-ray. 
E: X-ray. X, hyphen (“-“), R, A, Y. 
M: Okay, pretty easy word. 
E: Uhu. 
M: So, when you go to the doctor, many times you’ll get an x-ray. 
E: It is a picture of your bones. 
M: Right, so, that’s an x-ray. 
E: Alright, well, we’re going to hear both of these words in the dialogue. So, why don’t we 
listen as Gary visits his dentist? 
A: Hey, Gary, great to see you again. Please have a
seat. So tell me, what seems to be the problem?
B: Thanks, doc. I’ve got a really bad toothache! I
can’t eat anything, and look, my face is all swollen.
I think it might be my wisdom tooth.
A: Well, let’s have a look. Open wide. Hmm... this
doesn’t look good. Well, it looks like you have a
cavity and your crown is loose. We’ll need to put
in a filling before it gets any worse, and the crown
probably needs to be refitted. I’m going to order
some x-rays.
B: Is it gonna hurt?
A: No, not at all! Just lay back and relax.
A: Ok, spit.
 
M: Okay, that always happens the dentist says “no, it’s not gonna hurt, don’t worry about 
it”… 
E: But it always hurts much more than he says. 
M: Exactly. So, in this dialogue we saw some interesting words, when the dentist was 
describing what problems Gary had. 
E: Yes. So, why don’t we look at those now in “language takeaway”? 
Voice: Language takeaway. 
M: Alright, let’s take a look at our first word. 
E: So, Gary said that his face was all swollen. 
M: Swollen. 
E: Swollen. 
M: Swollen. 
E: So, swollen is an adjective, right Marco? 
M: Right, so, his face is or was swollen. 
E: It was bigger. 
M: Yeah, his face was bigger than normal. 
E: Yes, often when you hurt yourself, that part of your body becomes swollen. 
M: Swollen, right. 
E: Uhu. 
M: So, you have to put some ice on it usually and then the swelling will go down. 
E: And that’s the noun, the swelling. 
M: Right. 
E: Uhu. 
M: The swelling. And, well, the verb, to swell. 
E: Alright, three words for the price of one. 
M: So, let’s listen to some examples of how we would use the swelling, swollen, and to 
swell. 
Voice: Example one. 
A: My nose is swollen; it’s the size of a foot ball. 
Voice: Example two. 
B: Put some ice on your foot and the swelling will go down. 
Voice: Example three. 
C: I got bitten by a spider and my hand is swelling up. 
E: Aright, so… 
M: Uhu. 
E: Gary’s face was swollen and he thought that it was his wisdom teeth. 
M: Wisdom teeth. 
E: Wisdom teeth. 
M: Okay, so, this is interesting, wisdom is like wise. 
E: Yeah, knowledge. 
M: Knowledge. 
E: Yeah. 
M: So, these teeth, they’re not knowledgeable, but they’re called wisdom teeth. 
E: They are the teeth that grow last in your mouth, right? 
M: Right, they are the last teeth at the very end of your mouth. 
E: Yes, and usually you get them when you are about twenty. 
M: Uhu. And since they come out at this age, sometimes they interfere… they, uh, hurt a 
little bit, so you have to get them taken out. [NOTE: (1) interfere in this context means 
to intersect or to impede, for example, these two teeth interfere, they impede each 
other; (2) to get a tooth taken out means to remove a tooth; you might also say to get 
a tooth pulled, for example, I got my wisdom teeth pulled this morning] 
E: Yes, alright, wisdom teeth. 
M: Wisdom teeth, okay. Now, for our next word and something that we all got as children. 
Cavity. 
E: Cavity. 
M: A cavity. 
E: A cavity. It’s a hole in your tooth. 
M: A hole in your tooth. 
E: Uhu. 
M: And it’s caused by… 
E: Too much sugar. 
M: Too much sugar, right? 
E: Yeah. 
M: Or not brushing your teeth enough. 
E: Yeah. 
M: So, that’s why everyone had it, I think, as children cavities. 
E: I never had a cavity. 
M: Really? 
E: Yeah. 
M: Wow, didn’t have much sugar? 
E: I guess I was a bit of a health nut when I was a kid [NOTE: a health nut basically 
refers to a person who obsessed with their health and, particularly, with healthy nutrition] 
M: Uh, okay. 
E: Well, no, I wasn’t, my mom was. 
M: Hehe. 
E: No, I guess not. Alright, but enough about my eating habits, let’s talk about our next 
word, crown. 
M: Crown. 
E: A crown. 
M: So, a crown, this is interesting. 
E: We’re not taking kings and queens. 
M: Right, that’s the first thing that comes to mind, right? 
E: Yeah. 
M: No, a crown is actually the visible part of your teeth. 
E: Okay, so, there’s one part of your tooth that’s inside that you can’t see, right? 
M: Right, that’s called the root. 
E: Yes, so, when he said “your crown is loose”, what’s he talking really about the actual 
tooth? 
M: So, sometimes people will have… will lose a tooth or have a really bad cavity. 
E: Uhu. 
M: So, the dentist needs to make a new crown or a new visible part of the tooth for you, so, 
sometimes it’ll be made of gold… 
E: Yep, or… 
M: You know… 
E: Or porcelain. [NOTE: porcelain is a hard ceramic material; for example, porcelain 
dishes] 
M: Porcelain.  
E: Yeah. 
M: Exactly. 
E: So, a crown, it’s like, ah, a really, really, really big filling. 
M: Uhu. 
E: Yep. 
M: A crown, so his crown needed to be refitted or put back into place. 
E: Yes, now our final word, a filling. [NOTE: don’t confuse this word with another one, 
which sounds similarly - feeling] 
M: Filling. 
E: A filling. 
M: A filling. 
E: So, I just said this word previously. 
M: Uhu. 
E: Now, when you have a cavity… 
M: Uhu. 
E: You need to fill it in. 
M: Right, you need to fill it with something. 
E: Yes. 
M: It’s usually some sort of paste. 
E: Aha. And it gets really hard… 
M: And it gets… 
E: Just like your tooth. 
M: Exactly, so, then it covers up this cavity. Filling. 
E: A filling. 
M: I have many fillings, I wasn’t, uh, very healthy as a kid. 
E: Alright, not a good tooth brusher. 
M: Hehe. Exactly. So, why don’t we listen to this dialogue again and then we’ll come back 
and talk a little bit about some of the interesting phrases, that the doctor used. 
A: Hey, Gary, great to see you again. Please have a
seat. So tell me, what seems to be the problem?
B: Thanks, doc. I’ve got a really bad toothache! I
can’t eat anything, and look, my face is all swollen.
I think it might be my wisdom tooth.
A: Well, let’s have a look. Open wide. Hmm... this
doesn’t look good. Well, it looks like you have a
cavity and your crown is loose. We’ll need to put
in a filling before it gets any worse, and the crown
probably needs to be refitted. I’m going to order
some x-rays.
B: Is it gonna hurt?
A: No, not at all! Just lay back and relax.
A: Ok, spit.
 
E: Well, the dentist used three really interesting phrases and I wanna look at the first one. 
What seems to be the problem? 
M: What seems to be the problem? 
E: What seems to be the problem? 
M: Okay, very easy, little sentence to ask somebody “what’s wrong”. 
E: Exactly. 
M: Right. 
E: Um, and… I mean these are small easy words, but when you put them together they 
sound really natural, um, and… and really fluent. 
M: Uhu. So, if you ask somebody what seems to be the problem, it’s very polite… 
E: Yep. 
M: And it’s a very good way of asking “what’s wrong”. 
E: Yes. 
M: Alright. 
E: Our next phrase also made up of simple words. Let’s have a look. 
M: Let’s have a look. 
E: Let’s have a look. 
M: So, this is a phrase, that maybe your mechanic of your dentist or your doctor will say. 
E: Or anyone. 
M: Right.  
E: Your… 
M: Let’s have a look 
E: Let’s look at it and see what the problem is. 
M: Hm, okay, let’s have a look. 
E: Okay, and our final phrase. It doesn’t look good. 
M: It doesn’t look good. 
E: It doesn’t look good. 
M: So, I can use this phrase for an object, right? 
E: Yeah. 
M: Like, uh, this house doesn’t look good. 
E: Yes, but here it’s used a little bit differently. So, why don’t we listen to some examples to 
help us understand the meaning? 
Voice: Example one. 
A: John told me it doesn’t look good for me, I probably won’t get the job. 
Voice: Example two. 
B: It doesn’t look good for Michael Jackson. He’s in a lot of debt. 
Voice: Example three. 
C: You know, the economy doesn’t look very good. 
M: Okay, so, in the examples we can see, that they are using it for the situation.  
E: Yeah. 
M: It looks maybe problematic. 
E: Yeah, it’ll… so, when you say it doesn’t look good, you basically mean… there are going 
to be problems. 
M: Uhu. Alright, it doesn’t look good. 
E: Yeah. 
M: Okay, so, great phrases, great words, let’s listen to our, uh, “Gary at the dentist” one 
more time, then we’ll come back and talk a little bit more. 
A: Hey, Gary, great to see you again. Please have a
seat. So tell me, what seems to be the problem?
B: Thanks, doc. I’ve got a really bad toothache! I
can’t eat anything, and look, my face is all swollen.
I think it might be my wisdom tooth.
A: Well, let’s have a look. Open wide. Hmm... this
doesn’t look good. Well, it looks like you have a
cavity and your crown is loose. We’ll need to put
in a filling before it gets any worse, and the crown
probably needs to be refitted. I’m going to order
some x-rays.
B: Is it gonna hurt?
A: No, not at all! Just lay back and relax.
A: Ok, spit.
 
E: Well, Marco, um, speaking of dentists, have you ever had an experience like this, where 
you’ve spat out the tooth at the dentist? 
M: Hehe. Well, nothing so, uh, serious as this, but, actually, recently when I was in 
Cambodia… 
E: Alright, you called us from Cambodia. 
M: Yeah, Hehe. Well, our taxi driver offered us to have some local food… 
E: Uhu. 
M: And he said “well, we’re gonna have dog”, so that was… 
E: Oh, dear… 
M: Interesting, uh, actually it wasn’t that bad, it was pretty good, but, you know, if you get 
around the fact that it’s a dog… 
E: So, what does this have to do with your teeth? 
M: I was eating it and I bit a bone… 
E: Oh. 
M: That was hidden… 
E: Okay. 
M: And I chipped my tooth. 
E: So, you broke part of your tooth. 
M: Yeah, like half of it… which I… I had already chipped before, so I had to go to the dentist 
and so the dentist created a new crown with… not with gold or porcelain, actually with a 
paste. 
E: Ouh. 
M: Aha, and then it becomes hard and it just looks normal. It doesn’t even look like I have 
a… a fake crown, sort of say. 
E: But, dentists can be really expensive, so how much did this cost? 
M: W… Hehe. Well, this was for the bargain price of ten dollars. [NOTE: for a bargain 
price means for a relatively small amount of money] 
E: Ten dollars. 
M: Ten dollars… 
E: Nice. 
M: That’s how much it costs. 
E: So, we should all go to Cambodia for dentistry.  
M: For… yeah, because actually he was pretty good. He looked very young, though, I was 
kind of scared, because when he walked in he looked like he was nineteen, but I asked him 
his age and he was like thirty. 
E: Okay, well, you’re very trusting. [NOTE: trusting is an adjective and it refers to a 
person who believes other people easily] 
M: Hehe. Yeah, so, I imagine that you guys maybe have some dental experiences. So, why 
don’t you come to our website and tell us all about it. 
E: Yeah, visit us at englishpod.com and you can find lots more resources, uh, for learning 
English there. Well, guys thanks for listening and until next time… Bye! 
M: Good bye! 
 
