M: Hello everyone! Welcome to another lesson at EnglishPod! My name is Marco. 
C: My name is Catherine. So, Marco, what are we talking about today? 
M: Today we’re gonna be talking about a popular topic all over the world and that 
is smoking. 
C: Well, not so popular in the States right now to be honest. 
M: Well, that’s the thing in every country in the world. Now they are becoming more strict 
on smoking and where you can smoke, so it’s becoming very difficult for smokers 
nowadays. 
C: Well, it’s a good reason to wanna quit. 
M: And that’s what we’re gonna be talking about today is… is quitting smoking. 
C: Before we get going, we do have a really important phrase that we should preview in 
today’s “vocabulary preview”. 
Voice: Vocabulary preview. 
M: Alright, so, on vocabulary preview we’re gonna take a look at this word pack of 
smokes. 
C: Pack of smokes, so… 
M: A… a pack of smokes. 
C: So, smokes is a word for cigarettes. It’s the same thing. Smokes are cigarettes. 
M: Right, but a pack is, you know, like twenty cigarettes. 
C: It’s a box of cigarettes. You buy them in a pack, you don’t just buy one at a time. So, 
again, the phrase is pack of smokes. 
M: Pack of smokes. So, why don’t we listen to our dialogue for the first time and see what’s 
going on with this smoker? 
A: It smells like an ashtray in here!
B: Hi honey! What’s wrong? Why do you have that
look on your face?
A: What’s wrong? I thought we agreed that you were
gonna quit smoking.
B: No! I said I was going to cut down which is very
different. You can’t just expect me to go cold
turkey overnight!
A: Look, there are other ways to quit. You can try
the nicotine patch, or nicotine chewing gum. We
spend a fortune on cigarettes every month and
now laws are cracking down and not allowing
smoking in any public place. It’s not like you can
just light up like before.
B: I know, I know. I am trying but, I don’t have the
willpower to just quit. I can’t fight with the urge to
reach for my pack of smokes in the morning with
coffee or after lunch! Please understand?
A: Fine! I want a divorce!
C: Sorry, I just, um… just… smoked a pack of cig[arettes]… 
M: Hehe. Do you… you do smoke, don’t you? 
C: Well, we’ll talk about that later. 
M: Hehe. Alright, so, it is a little bit extreme though, I mean, he’s divorcing here, cause she 
won’t quit. [NOTE: actually, she’s divorcing him in the dialogue] 
C: Well, some people really are health conscious and are afraid of that negative side of 
smoking, which has a lot of health side effects. 
M: Yeah, well, as he was complaining about all the negative effects and the negative 
aspects of, uh, smoking, he did mention, both of them mentioned a lot of great words and 
phrases. So, why don’t we take a look at them now in “language takeaway”? 
Voice: Language takeaway. 
C: Well, this first word is a word that’s very important for any smoker who goes to a bar or 
a restaurant and needs to put the ash somewhere, right? So, when you smoke, there’s 
some ash, there’s some messy dirty stuff and you need an ashtray to collect it. 
M: An ashtray. 
C: So, an ashtray is something that’s usually round or square and you put it on a table and 
it’s just very helpful to keep the house clean or a restaurant clean. So, if you’re in a 
restaurant, you say “Hey, can I have an ashtray, please?” 
M: Uhu, so, the… the residue or the… the stuff that when you’re smoking, it comes out the 
grey, I don’t know, like dust, it’s called ash. 
C: Right, and this is a tray, but the… the complaint here is “Oh, it smells like an ashtray in 
here”, that means it smells really, really bad in here. 
M: Yeah, it smells like cigarettes. 
C: Yeah, so, that word again is ashtray. 
M: Ashtray, alright. Well, and the guy was complaining and he said “Well, I thought you 
were gonna quit smoking” and she said “No, no, I said I was going to cut down”. 
C: She says it’s very different from quitting smoking. So, Marco, maybe we should talk 
about how cutting down and quitting are different. 
M: Alright, so, if I say I’m gonna cut down on smoking, it’s just I’m gonna smoke less. 
C: Mm, okay, so, let’s take an example. I smoke ten cigarettes a day, but I wanna cut 
down. How many should I smoke later? Maybe… 
M: Like two or three. 
C: Two or three. 
M: Hehe. Instead of quitting. So, if you quit smoking, that would mean zero. 
C: Zero cigarettes. 
M: Uhu. 
C: No smoking anymore. 
M: Right. 
C: Alright, so you can also cut down on carbs, like carbohydrates. So some people, who 
cut down on carbs, eat less bread, they don’t eat any pasta. So these are really good ways 
of trying to talk about dieting as well as smoking. 
M: Right, and I think we have a couple of examples of other ways we can use this 
phrase cut down, so let’s listen to them now. 
Voice: Example one. 
A: Our company has decided to cut down our workload, so from now on, we leave at three 
p.m. every Friday. 
Voice: Example two. 
B: You should really cut down on the amount of salt you eat. It’s not good for you. 
Voice: Example three. 
C: My doctor told me I need to cut down on fatty food, because of my heart condition. 
C: And when you want to smoke a cigarette you have to do something first with some fires. 
We call this lighting up. 
M: To light up. 
C: So, lighting up, it doesn’t mean turning on the light. 
M: No. 
C: It actually means using a lighter or some fire to start your cigarette. 
M: Right, so, you wanna light up with a lighter, matches or some sort of fire. 
C: The… the man says, the husband says “It’s not like you can justlight up like before” that 
means it’s not like you can just smoke like before, so… 
M: Right. 
C: In some cases light up means to smoke a cigarette. Or in a movie theater and someone 
lights a cigarette and I say ”Uh! You can’t light up in here!” 
M: Right, so, you can’t smoke in here. 
C: You can’t smoke in here. 
M: It’s another way of saying “smoking”. 
C: Uhu. 
M: Very good. And she was explaining, you know, how difficult it is and she’s trying to quit, 
but she said “I don’t have the willpower to just quit”. 
C: Ooh, willpower. So, this is an important word. 
M: Willpower. 
C: Willpower, you think of the main part of this word is will. 
M: Uhu. 
C: That means the desire to do something, you wanna do something. 
M: So, if I have willpower, I have strong willpower, what am I saying? 
C: You’re saying that you can make a decision and you can follow your decision. So, I 
decide not to eat cake, I have very strong willpower, so I never eat cake. 
M: Uhu. 
C: If I don’t have strong willpower, maybe I sometimes… 
M: You’ll eat cake. 
C: Secretly eat cake in the middle of the night from my refrigerator. 
M: So, that happens, right? Sometimes you don’t have strong enough willpower, so you 
kind of eat a little bit of cake… 
C: Yeah, so… 
M: When nobody’s watching. 
C: Exactly, and you can have willpower about lots of different things, so this is a great word 
again to use when you’re talking about dieting or smoking or drinking. 
M: Any type of maybe temptation. 
C: Mm, exactly. 
M: Alright, and, well, she said she had this urge to reach for her pack of smokes. 
C: Ooh, urge is another good one and it’s very similar to willpower, but an urge is kind of 
like a physical feeling that makes you want to do something. 
M: So, you have like this strong desire. 
C: Uhu, so, I have the urge to go swimming today. I don’t know why, but I really want to. 
M: Alright, you have an urge. Interesting word. 
C: Pregnant women often have these kinds of things to “I have the urge to do something”. 
We also call them cravings. 
M: Oh, cravings or urge. 
C: Uhu. 
M: To do something. Alright, interesting. So, we’ve taken a look at these five great words 
and I think we should listen to our dialogue again. We’re gonna slow it down just a little bit 
and then we’ll come back and talk some more. 
A: It smells like an ashtray in here!
B: Hi honey! What’s wrong? Why do you have that
look on your face?
A: What’s wrong? I thought we agreed that you were
gonna quit smoking.
B: No! I said I was going to cut down which is very
different. You can’t just expect me to go cold
turkey overnight!
A: Look, there are other ways to quit. You can try
the nicotine patch, or nicotine chewing gum. We
spend a fortune on cigarettes every month and
now laws are cracking down and not allowing
smoking in any public place. It’s not like you can
just light up like before.
B: I know, I know. I am trying but, I don’t have the
willpower to just quit. I can’t fight with the urge to
reach for my pack of smokes in the morning with
coffee or after lunch! Please understand?
A: Fine! I want a divorce!
C: And we are back. So, we have a great part of our show. We’re like to talk about some 
phrases that help you attain fluency that means sounding like a native speaker of English. 
And today’s phrases are wonderful. 
M: Alright, so, let’s take a look at them now, in “fluency builder”. 
Voice: Fluency builder. 
M: So, on fluency builder today let’s take a look at two different phrases and let’s start with 
the first one. She mentioned something about going cold turkey overnight. What is that 
phrase gold… cold turkey? 
C: Uh, this is a very strange phrase. Okay, so, first of all, why would a turkey be cold? 
M: Hehe. 
C: They have lots of feathers. And second of all, why would… what does it have to do 
with cigarettes? 
M: Right, so, if I say “I’m going cold turkey”, what is that? 
C: So, just take this as a phrase. 
M: Uhu. 
C: Don’t think about the actual words, because they won’t make sense in this context. What 
we’re talking about is quitting smoking entirely. It… you’re not going to cut down. It means 
today I’m not gonna smoke at all and I’m never gonna smoke again, that means never ever 
will I smoke another cigarette. So, it’s cold turkey. 
M: So, if I go cold turkey, it means I stop doing something immediately and suddenly and 
forever. 
C: Entirely. 
M: Alright. 
C: So, you can use this phrase for different habits, different things that you do like drinking, 
for example, or cutting down on sugar. 
M: Uhu. 
C: But generally we just say this about cigarettes. 
M: So, it’s mostly related to smoking. 
C: Yeah, so… 
M: Going cold turkey. 
C: Some people like to smoke less, like one cigarette a day or one cigarette a week, but 
going cold turkey is supposed to be the hardest. 
M: Right, okay, going cold turkey. Alright, and well, he was explaining the different negative 
aspects of smoking. He said well, you know, they spend a fortune on cigarettes every 
month and he said laws are cracking down. So, if the laws are cracking down, what is 
he trying to say there? 
C: Well, this is the actually very interesting point, because in America right now, it’s very 
hard to smoke in public places, so this means that the government is trying to stop people 
from smoking, so they say “No more smoking in public places; no more smoking in 
restaurants, no more smoking in bars”. And so, this is… this means they’re cracking down, 
they’re making it harder to do something. 
M: So, they are becoming more strict. 
C: Uhu. 
M: I think for this phrase we should listen to a couple of more examples just to make sure 
we understand it. 
Voice: Example one. 
A: The police are cracking down on drunk driving in our city. 
Voice: Example two. 
B: Our school has really started a crackdown on tardiness. 
Voice: Example three. 
C: The president has passed the law that will crack down possession of illegal substances. 
M: Alright, so, the government is cracking down laws or cracking down… 
C: Yeah, exactly, so, this is an important one, because you read this in newspapers as well 
about certain laws and police action. 
M: Alright, great. So, I think it’s time for us to listen to this dialogue for one last time and 
then we’ll come back and talk a little bit more about this vice. 
A: It smells like an ashtray in here!
B: Hi honey! What’s wrong? Why do you have that
look on your face?
A: What’s wrong? I thought we agreed that you were
gonna quit smoking.
B: No! I said I was going to cut down which is very
different. You can’t just expect me to go cold
turkey overnight!
A: Look, there are other ways to quit. You can try
the nicotine patch, or nicotine chewing gum. We
spend a fortune on cigarettes every month and
now laws are cracking down and not allowing
smoking in any public place. It’s not like you can
just light up like before.
B: I know, I know. I am trying but, I don’t have the
willpower to just quit. I can’t fight with the urge to
reach for my pack of smokes in the morning with
coffee or after lunch! Please understand?
A: Fine! I want a divorce!
C: So, do you have a problem with this vice as you call it? 
M: Um… 
C: Are you a smoker? 
M: I’m really not. I’m the type of person that could maybe smoke socially, like if we go out 
to a bar with drinks – a social smoker like they call it, right? 
C: Yeah, I’m jealous. 
M: But not really… you’re a habitual smoker, right? 
C: Right, well, I was. I’m trying to cut down, so as a habitual smoker I often smoked 
everyday. 
M: Uhu. 
C: Sometimes I smoked a lot and sometimes I smoked less, but right now I’m in a period 
where I’m mostly quit. 
M: Okay, almost. 
C: Yeah, well, I haven’t smoked in a while and what I do it’s just one cigarette. 
M: Now, it is interesting, because like we mentioned laws are cracking down where you can 
smoke, but also taxes on cigarettes are becoming much more expensive, right? 
C: Absolutely, especially where I’m from. In Chicago it’s easy to spend maybe ten US 
dollars or twelve US dollars on one pack of cigarettes. 
M: On a pack of cigarettes, imagine that. 
C: Yeah. 
M: So, then you have people that can’t help smoking one or two packs a day. 
C: Yeah. 
M: So, how much is that a month? It’s just an amazing amount of money. 
C: Thousands of dollars. Well, and I have to say though, a lot of my friends who used to 
smoke in America have quit, so this is maybe working. Uhu. 
M: The… the whole thing of making cigarettes… 
C: Taxing. 
M: More expensive. 
C: Yeah, making them much more expansive. 
M: Now, another interesting thing and what I was reading recently is that you know those 
warnings that come on cigarette packs? 
C: Yeah. 
M: It says, you know, “smoking kills”, “smoking causes cancer”. Actually, a study has 
proven that it’s not effective, that people don’t mind it or even worry about the cautions on 
the cigarette packages. 
C: Well, as a smoker I could say that yeah, you generally, if you’re gonna smoke a 
cigarette, don’t look at the label that much, you just… 
M: Hehe. 
C: You know, you throw it in your bag and you forget about it. 
M: But it’s actually gone to the point where people choose the cigarette pack based on 
the picture, so it’s like “Oh yeah, give me that one with the black lungs” or “Give me that 
one”, you know… 
C: Oh, God. 
M: Yeah, it… it’s interesting. So, it’s not really working. I guess, uh, we’re gonna have to 
find other ways to make people more conscious about this vice. 
C: We should, uhu. 
M: But, ah, come to our website at englishpod.com, tell us what you think about this, uh, 
vice – smoking. Is it good? Is it bad? Are you a habitual smoker or just a social smoker? 
C: Yeah, we also have lots of great stuff… tools for you on our website and expansion 
sentences and all that stuff that helps you continue your studies outside of, well, the car or 
your house. Um, so, check it out. Let us know what you think and until next time… 
M: Alright, we’ll see you there. 
C: Bye! 
M: Bye! 
 
 
