 Hello everyone and welcome to EnglishPod.
My name is Marco.
My name is Catherine and today we have a lesson for you all about life at home and life with your parents.
That's right.
We've all lived with our parents when we were younger or maybe we still do and of course they have certain rules in the house and well when you break those rules something happens.
There are consequences and that's what's happening in today's dialogue.
So let's take a listen to this dialogue and when we come back we'll be talking more about what's going on and what some of these words and phrases mean.
Do you know what time it is?
Um, 10?
Get in this door young man.
It's midnight.
You are two hours past curfew.
I know but it wasn't my fault.
I told Jennifer she had to drop me off before 10 but she wouldn't leave the party.
I don't care.
You are grounded for life mister.
Mom that is so unfair.
You know the rules and you broke them.
No allowance and no TV for a week.
I usually never ground you but this time I have to put my foot down.
What?
For being a couple of hours late?
You have to be kidding.
I don't want to hear it.
Now go to your room.
Alright we're back.
So a very typical case somebody or the kid returns home.
It's too late and now they're in trouble.
Yes his parents are not very happy.
In this case it's his mom who is telling him what the consequences will be.
So let's take a look at language takeaway and find out what some of these keywords are.
Language takeaway.
Alright so the first word that we're going to take a look at is actually something that his mom said and he said that you are two hours past curfew.
Curfew so curfew has to do specifically with the time when your parents expect you at home.
That's right.
So if your curfew is 10 o'clock you have to be home before or by 10 o'clock.
Right so in this case if the boy's curfew is 10 o'clock and he arrives home at midnight 12 o'clock he's two hours past curfew.
That's right.
Even sometimes cities or governments will implement certain curfews at certain times.
That's right and I don't think adults really have curfews at home.
No I don't think so.
It depends on what you want but kids definitely have curfews.
What happens though Marco when you break curfew?
So this is a very serious offense and you're going to get punished and the way that we say this usually parents to their children you are grounded or you ground that kid.
Okay so you might have heard this word when talking about airplanes or flights at an airport the plane was grounded.
It basically means it can't go anywhere.
And so when you're talking about a kid or a person you basically mean okay you're grounded you can't go out with your friends you can't go anywhere.
Usually you can go to school.
But you can't have fun is the meaning.
That's right so it's usually a fixed phrase you're grounded.
That means that you are punished you can't go out.
But in this case the mom specified saying you're grounded so that means that he can't go out.
But on top of that she said no allowance and no TV for a week.
Oh man so allowance is the money that your parents give you to go out like to go to the movies or something.
And your parents might give this to you on a weekly basis so every Saturday you get five dollars or on a monthly basis every month you get twenty dollars.
And when his mother says you're not going to have any allowance for a week that means we're not going to give you any money this week.
That's right so that is an allowance how much money you get per month or per week.
The key thing about allowance though is that it's not something you do for work.
You don't work and receive allowance.
If you work you have a salary allowance is something that you get for free from someone.
Yeah so you can get an allowance from your boss to eat but you can also have an allowance for your parents to do fun things.
That's right.
And kids obviously they can't work so they get an allowance from their parents usually for fun things like going to the movies and stuff.
Exactly.
Alright now going back a little bit let's take a look at two ways that the mom addressed or called her son because obviously it's her son but when he got home she said get in this door young man.
Okay these are angry mom phrases.
When you're in trouble your parents tend to use different words to talk to you.
So this is a very popular one young man.
So it's like saying you should be mature but you made a mistake.
Alright so come inside right now young man.
Yeah it's a way to kind of emphasize that you are also very angry.
And also when he was trying to explain what happened she said I don't care you're grounded for life mister.
You're grounded for life mister.
So these are both ways of talking to young boys.
Mister is the opposite of miss.
But in the case of a young girl you'd say get in this door young lady.
Right and then you're grounded for life missy.
Missy yeah I think they say missy.
Missy so missy mister young man young lady.
These are all ways of referring to people in kind of it's weird it's kind of like they're adults but they're not.
Yeah that's right.
That's like saying you're in trouble.
Yeah so very interesting things going on here with this young man who got grounded.
Why don't we go back let's take a look at our dialogue again and we'll be back in a bit.
All right we're back so now let's take a look at four key phrases that we've picked out for you on fluency builder.
Fluency builder.
All right so this first phrase is something that actually we hear when the young boy or the young man is giving his excuse for being late.
He said listen I told Jennifer she had to drop me off before 10.
That's right.
So the phrasal verb there is to drop off.
This means to leave someone somewhere.
That's right.
But usually it means to drive someone to a certain place.
So for example Jennifer probably has a car and Jennifer was supposed to take this boy home so he said she was going to drop me off before 10 o'clock.
That means kind of leave her leave him at his house.
That's right.
So the verb is to drop off but we usually insert the subject in between it so to drop me off.
She is going to drop me off.
I dropped him off at the bank.
That's right.
All right.
So now that Jennifer was supposed to drop him off at 10 that didn't happen so he got grounded and his mom was saying that she usually doesn't really ground him but this time I have to put my foot down.
She's angry.
Yeah.
He's upset and she's angry and she said listen I have to put my foot down.
What does this mean?
You put your foot on the ground?
It's strange to hear this phrase.
It means that she's going to be strict that she's not going to let him just get away with it or not ground him.
She really has to be strict and she has to punish him.
Okay so to put your foot down or I put my foot down this means to be strict with someone to not maybe bend the rules or be flexible.
So for example my mother was always very very loose with my brother.
He could do what he wanted or whatever but one day he did something really horrible and she finally put her foot down.
And she grounded him.
She grounded him for three months.
All right so that's what happens when somebody puts their foot down and now obviously he was very surprised that he's going to be grounded for so long and only for being a couple of hours late so he said you have to be kidding.
You have got to be kidding.
So this is a rhetorical so he's not talking about joking here.
He's saying no way.
I can't believe it.
This is not happening to me.
Yeah you're not serious.
You're not serious.
So he's upset.
And I would be too.
No one likes to be grounded.
But he's saying okay come on.
No way.
That's too serious.
That's right.
So this is a phrase that you can use with someone if you're not really believing what they're saying or you're surprised.
You have to be kidding me.
Yeah but usually there's also a degree of anger.
So you're upset at the decision.
For example I'm watching the World Cup right now and there was a foul and I was very upset because I didn't think it was a foul and I said you have got to be kidding me.
That's right.
OK.
So that's exactly the way that we would use that phrase.
And well obviously the mother had made up her mind.
She's very decided and she said I don't want to hear it.
So this is the end of the conversation.
OK.
So she's going to use phrases that will just stop anything you're talking about.
So they're arguing and she says nope I don't want to hear it.
That means no more excuses.
No more talking.
This is the end.
That's right.
I don't want to hear it.
And it's used in many scenarios right.
Not only for somebody being angry or grounded but also in a meeting.
I don't want to hear it.
That's it.
We're doing my idea.
We're going forward with it.
Well be careful because that's usually what the boss will say.
That's right.
It's not the most gentle phrase.
And so you have to be careful with how you use it.
If you have authority like you're a parent or you're a boss you can say nope I don't want to hear it.
I have made my decision.
That's right.
OK.
So we've taken a look at a lot of great things.
Why don't we go back listen to our dialogue one last time and we'll be back in a bit.
Do you know what time it is.
Ten.
Get in this door young man.
It's midnight.
You are two hours past curfew.
I know but it wasn't my fault.
I told Jennifer she had to drop me off before 10 but she wouldn't leave the party.
I don't care.
You are grounded for life Mr.
Mom.
That is so unfair.
You know the rules and you broke them.
No allowance and no TV for a week.
I usually never ground you but this time I have to put my foot down.
What.
For being a couple of hours late.
You have to be kidding.
I don't want to hear it.
Now go to your room.
All right we're back so obviously we've all been grounded.
What is the longest you've been grounded for.
I was a good girl so maybe a week.
Really.
Maybe not even.
I never really got in trouble as a kid.
What about you.
I think I think once I was grounded the entire summer.
Oh Ross.
Yeah the entire summer vacation.
I don't remember exactly what I did but my dad was pretty upset with me and yeah he was really strict so I got grounded quite a bit.
I tend to think that girls get in trouble less.
I don't know if it's because they're good.
I think probably it's because they're better at hiding things from their parents.
Maybe because whenever I would come home my mother would always wake up but she's very she doesn't really understand what time it is and so I'd say Oh mom it's eleven o'clock good night.
Yeah it'd be like four o'clock in the morning and she had no idea.
So who was the person or the parent that put their foot down was it your mom or your dad.
My dad was the serious one.
Oh really.
Yeah it's interesting because sometimes it's the dad that's very strict and the mom kind of helps you out and tries to kind of not get you grounded or something.
But sometimes it's the other way around the mom is really strict and firm and the dad's like come on don't ground him.
They're just having fun.
Well I think in some families the children understand who is strict and who is maybe not so strict.
And so they say oh well mom said that it's OK so I think maybe you should let me go out and the dad will be very angry because the mother said that it's OK.
That's right.
All right so that's all the time we have for today.
We're really curious to get your stories maybe tell us why were you grounded or how long were you grounded for.
Or what was your curfew when you were a child or growing up.
Our website is EnglishPod.com we hope to see you there.
All right we'll see you guys there.
Bye.