M: Hello English learners! Welcome back to another great lesson here with EnglishPod! My 
name is Marco. 
E: And I’m Erica. 
M: And today we’re bringing you an upper intermediate lesson. 
E: A special lesson about the new president. 
M: Right, it’s been a hot topic in the US. 
E: Uhu. 
M: The new president-elect, president Obama. 
E: Yes. 
M: So, today we’re bringing you something that you might see at his inaugural address. 
E: That’s true. So, Marco, can you explain this word – inaugural address? 
M: The inaugural address is the first speech the president gives at the ceremony when he is 
officially president. 
E: Okay, alright, so… 
M: Right. 
E: So, it’s his first presidential speech. 
M: Exactly. 
E: Uhu. 
M: Great, so, let’s take a look at some other words that we’re gonna find in the dialogue 
today in “vocabulary preview”. 
Voice: Vocabulary preview. 
M: Alright, on vocabulary preview today we have two words. The first one is swear in. 
E: Swear in. 
M: Swear in. 
E: Swear in. We’ll see this word in its past tense in the dialogue, right? 
M: Right. 
E: Sworn in. 
M: Sworn in. 
E: So, it means… 
M: So, to swear someone in is to officially give that person a very important position… 
E: Right. 
M: Usually in government. 
E: Yeah-yeah. 
M: And our second word is oath. 
E: Oath. 
M: Oath. 
E: O-A-T-H, oath. 
M: And oath goes hand in hand with swear in, right? 
E: That’s right. When you swear someone in, they make an oath - a promise, right? 
M: A promise. 
E: An official promise to carry out the duties of that job. 
M: Right, so, they promise that they will do their job. Okay, great, so now let’s listen to our 
dialog for a first time. Where are we? 
E: Well, we’re actually watching a news reporter on TV. She’s in Washington and she’s 
gonna tell us all about what’s happening. 
M: Great, so, let’s listen. 
A: This is Madeline Wright, for BCC News reporting
live from Washington D. C. where, very shortly,
the new President will deliver his inaugural ad-
dress. Just moments ago, the President was
sworn-in to office; following the United States
Constitution the President swore an oath to faith-
fully execute the office of the presidency.
B: And what exactly is going on now, Madeline?
A: Well, Tom, true to American tradition, the band
has just played “Hail to the Chief”, and the Presi-
dent has been honored by a 21-gun salute. Now
we’re waiting for the President to take to the stage
and deliver his speech. Tom, it’s like a who’s who
of the political world here on Capital Hill, with dig-
nitaries representing several different countries.
B: What’s the mood on the ground like, Madeline?
A: In a word, the mood here is electric. The excite-
ment in the air is palpable; I’ve never seen a larger
crowd here on Capital Hill, and the audience is
shouting, crying, and embracing each other. On
this, a most historic day, you can feel the hope and
the excitement in the air. The 20th of January will
go down in history as the . . . . Oh, Tom, it looks
like the President is about to begin. . .
C: My fellow Americans, today I stand before you...
 
M: Okay, some technical problems at the inaugural address. 
E: Yeah, I certainly hope this doesn’t happen. 
M: No… well, if it does, you heard it first at EnglishPod. 
E: Predictors of the future here. 
M: Hehe. Okay, let’s take a look at “language takeaway”. 
Voice: Language takeaway. 
M: On language takeaway today we’re bringing you four words. 
E: The first word is deliver. 
M: Deliver. 
E: Deliver. 
M: Like deliver a pizza. 
E: No. 
M: Hehe. 
E: Let’s listen. We’ve got three examples that will show the meaning of this word. 
Voice: Example one. 
A: Who’s going to deliver the welcome speech? 
Voice: Example two. 
B: I’ve been asked to deliver a presentation on the findings of our research project. 
Voice: Example three. 
C: Dr. Rosen is delivering a lecture on macroeconomics. 
M: Okay, so, deliver a speech. 
E: Say a speech. 
M: To say a speech. 
E: Yeah. 
M: So, you wouldn’t say “say a speech”, you would say “deliver a speech”. 
E: Exactly. 
M: Okay. Okay, our second word for language takeaway – the who’s who. 
E: The who’s who. 
M: The who’s who. 
E: So, this is a funny expression, hey? 
M: It’s kind of weird. 
E: The who’s who is the important people in a particular field, right? 
M: Right, so, for example, there was a party last night and the who’s who of the film 
industry was there. 
E: Wow, so, all the important stars and… 
M: And directors… 
E: Yeah. 
M: And all that stuff. 
E: Okay. You could also say “the funeral was like a who’s who of the political world”. 
M: Okay, so, all the important political figures were at this funeral. 
E: Exactly. Let’s move to our third word. 
M: Dignitaries. 
E: Dignitaries. 
M: Dignitaries. 
E: Dignitaries. 
M: Okay, we have some great examples, so you can understand what this word means. So, 
let’s listen. 
Voice: Example one. 
A: Several important dignitaries were presented at the opening ceremony, including the 
President of Brazil, the King of Spain and the Pope. 
Voice: Example two. 
B: There’re going to be a lot of foreign dignitaries at the dinner. 
E: So, basically, we can understand that dignitaries are really important people, right? 
M: Right, important political or religious figures. 
E: I see. 
M: Alright, now our last word for language takeaway – palpable. 
E: Palpable. 
M: Palpable. 
E: Palpable. When something is palpable, it’s so strong you can feel it. 
M: Okay, so, it’s a very strong feeling. You can almost touch it. 
E: Yeah, like the excitement was palpable or the fear was palpable. 
M: Okay. 
E: Uhu. 
M: Interesting word palpable. Let’s listen to our dialogue again and now let’s try and listen 
to all these words we just talked about. 
A: This is Madeline Wright, for BCC News reporting
live from Washington D. C. where, very shortly,
the new President will deliver his inaugural ad-
dress. Just moments ago, the President was
sworn-in to office; following the United States
Constitution the President swore an oath to faith-
fully execute the office of the presidency.
B: And what exactly is going on now, Madeline?
A: Well, Tom, true to American tradition, the band
has just played “Hail to the Chief”, and the Presi-
dent has been honored by a 21-gun salute. Now
we’re waiting for the President to take to the stage
and deliver his speech. Tom, it’s like a who’s who
of the political world here on Capital Hill, with dig-
nitaries representing several different countries.
B: What’s the mood on the ground like, Madeline?
A: In a word, the mood here is electric. The excite-
ment in the air is palpable; I’ve never seen a larger
crowd here on Capital Hill, and the audience is
shouting, crying, and embracing each other. On
this, a most historic day, you can feel the hope and
the excitement in the air. The 20th of January will
go down in history as the . . . . Oh, Tom, it looks
like the President is about to begin. . .
C: My fellow Americans, today I stand before you...
 
M: Okay, so, if you noticed in our dialogue we have some really interesting phrases there. 
E: Yes. 
M: So, I think it’s time for us to take a look at “fluency builder”. 
Voice: Fluency builder. 
M: On fluency builder today we’re gonna be looking at three phrases that are very 
interesting, because we can change them a little bit… 
E: Uhu. 
M: And form different patterns. 
E: Yeah. So, the first phrase we have is in a word. 
M: In a word. 
E: In a word. 
M: In a word. 
E: We use this expression when we want to describe something in one word. 
M: Right. 
E: Pretty simple, hey? 
M: It’s really simple. 
E: Let’s look at the pattern. We’ve got examples of how you could use this phrase. 
Voice: Example one. 
A: In a word the situation is serious. 
Voice: Example two. 
B: What’s it like there? 
C: In a word, it’s amazing. 
M: Okay, so, in a word this podcast is… 
E: Awesome. 
M: Amazing. 
E: Aha. 
M: Okay. Okay, let’s look at our second phrase today – go down in history. 
E: Go down in history. 
M: Go down in history. 
E: So, this is a really common phrase. I’m sure you guys have heard it. 
M: Yeah, basically, something that is really important that everyone will remember for a 
very long time. 
E: Let’s look at this pattern with a few examples. 
Voice: Example one. 
A: This is going to go down in history as the worst disaster the world has ever seen. 
Voice: Example two. 
B: He’ll go down in history as the best president we’ve ever had. 
Voice: Example three. 
C: This day will go down in history. 
M: Okay, so, as you can see the pattern is we’re using a superlative. 
E: That’s right. The most. The best. 
M: The biggest. 
E: The worst. 
M: The worst, right. 
E: Aha. And our final phrase in putting it together is… [NOTE: in “fluency builder”, in fact] 
M: My fellow Americans. 
E: My fellow Americans. 
M: My fellow Americans. 
E: So, obviously, you can change this one up a little bit, hey? 
M: Right, you can say “my fellow coworkers”. 
E: Aha, my fellow citizens. 
M: My fellow family members. 
E: Yes. Hehe. 
M: Hehe. So, basically, fellow just means like… dear. 
E: Yeah. 
M: In some way. 
E: Some… sim… well, similar. 
M: Similar. 
E: Yeah. 
M: So, we looked at some great vocabulary and phrases and now let’s talk a little bit about 
these American traditions, when electing a new president. 
E: Yes. 
M: Today in the studio we have JP, who joining us. 
JP: Hi everyone! 
E: Hey JP! 
M: And he’s gonna be talking to us about these, uh, traditions. 
E: Oh, I am, okay. 
M: Hehe, yeah. 
JP: What are we gonna talk about? 
M: Twenty one gun salute. What’s that all about? 
JP: The twenty one gun salute is the military salute, where they say “and now we will have 
the twenty one gun salute”. So, twenty one soldiers with the riffles, they go hu-hu-hu… puh. 
And they all shoot them off at the same time… and I don’t know why. 
M: Hehe. 
E: I think it’s a sing of respect, hey? 
M: Kind of… 
JP: Yeah. 
E: Yeah. 
M: Weird respect, though. Shooting guns. 
JP: Well, I think in Europe they would do a cannon or something. 
E: Oh. 
M: Oh, that’s right. 
E: Twenty one cannon salute? 
JP: No, well, just cannon. 
E: Hehe. 
M: Hehe. 
JP: Maybe, well, just one cannon. 
E: Maybe our European listeners know the answer to this. 
JP: Maybe, Hehe. 
M: Yeah. Okay, and what about this song “Hail to the Chief”? Do you know anything about 
that? 
JP: I do not know anything about. 
E: Hehe. 
M: Hehe. 
JP: Except that it’s a march and… 
E: Aha. 
JP: I think it’s Soussa. I think John Phillip Soussa wrote it. And whenever the president 
walks into a room, they play that song. 
E: Really? 
JP: Yes…  
M: Ah. 
JP: And I’ve played it once for President Bush, the first one. I was a drummer and… 
E: You did? 
JP: And my marching band had to play that song for him. 
E: Oh my god… 
M: Wow. 
E: JP like famous. 
JP: Yeah. This was back in like 1986 or something. Was that even an election year? 88? I 
don’t know. 
E: Yeah. 
M: Well, you did play for the president, so, you know… 
E: That’s pretty cool. 
M: Yeah-yeah. 
E: Uhu. So, JP, do you have any other sort of traditional things that happen when the 
president becomes the president. 
JP: Well, um, I can tell you that Jimmy Carter… 
E: Aha. 
JP: You know, when… when he was elected president, this motorcade was going down 
Pennsylvania Avenue and he stopped the car and got out. 
E: Really? 
M: To do what? 
JP: To… Yeah. To walk, he wanted to walk down Pennsylvania Avenue, he wanted to walk 
down ah… um, you know, down the street. Down… 
E: To like… to be with the people. 
JP: Yeah, I think so. And I think it made the… I think it made the Secret Service insane. 
E: Aha. 
M: Maybe… maybe the car smelled bad or something. 
JP: Hehe. Maybe so. I think, that is my memory of that. I might be confusing with the West 
Wing, but I’m not… 
E: Hehe. 
M: Hehe. 
JP: Ah, I’m not sure. 
M: Too much TV. 
JP: Yeah, maybe. Wh… when the president walks, it’s a big deal, you know. 
E: So, JP, do you do anything special, uh, for the inauguration ceremony? 
M: You know… 
JP: I was take the day off to watch. 
E: You do. 
JP: I love watching… I love, you know, the, uh, I love the… the swearing-in ceremony… 
E: Aha. 
JP: The ??? the… the… the speech… 
M: Alright, everyone, we’re out of time. I hope you enjoyed this, uh, political lesson. 
E: And I hope you have a happy inauguration day. 
JP: Happy Inauguration everyone! 
E: Yeah. 
M: Okay. 
JP: [voice] 
M: Hehe. Alright, great. We’re definitely gonna take the day off to watch it with JP and, uh, 
hopefully you guys can too. 
E: Well, thanks for listening everyone and until next time… Good bye! 
M: Bye! 
 
