M: Hello English learners! Welcome back to another great lesson atEnglishPod! My name 
is Marco. 
E: And my name’s Erica. 
M: And today we’re gonna be building something. 
E: That’s right, uh, we’ve got a lesson about, um, construction. 
M: Cool, so, we’re gonna be working at a construction site today and we’re gonna learn a lot 
of cool vocabulary with different types oftools. 
E: And we’ll also learn some phrases that you can use to talk about work. So even if you’re 
not really interested in building and making stuff… with your hands, um, you will learn some 
language to talk about work in general. 
M: Alright, so, before we get started with this, uh, construction dialogue, let’s take a look at 
“vocabulary preview”. 
Voice: Vocabulary preview. 
E: Well, Marco, we’re gonna look at two words now. And like you said we’re building 
something in this lesson, right? 
M: Right, we’re gonna be building a deck. 
E: A deck. 
M: A deck. 
E: Alright, so, a deck. What is that? 
M: Basically, it’s an elevated wooden platform that houses will have like in their backyards 
maybe. 
E: So, it’s a… a platform that’s a little bit higher of the ground. 
M: Uhu. 
E: Behind your house. 
M: Uhu, so, it’s very popular for houses to have decks and people will put out a table and 
chairs and maybe have lunch out there or something. 
E: Or barbeque or something. 
M: Exactly. 
E: Yeah. Okay, so, a deck. Now, they’re building this deck and they… they need to follow 
some plans. 
M: Plans. 
E: Plans. 
M: The plans that we’re taking about are construction plans. 
E: Yeah, it’s kind of like the map for the deck. 
M: Uhu. 
E: How you’re gonna build it. 
M: Exactly, so, we can have floor plans, for example. 
E: Mm, so, that… that shows you how the… the building looks like… 
M: Uhu. 
E: Where the different rooms are. 
M: At like a house, right? 
E: Yeah. 
M: So, it’s basically the map for a construction. 
E: Okay, great! So, two interesting words. We’re gonna both of these in the dialogue. Now, 
why don’t we get started and… and find out what’s gonna happen as they’re building this 
deck? 
A: Alright, ladies and gentlemen. We’ve been hired
to build a deck on this here house, and turn this
boring and drab lawn into a backyard oasis. There
is one catch, though. We’ve only got one day to
finish this, so I’m gonna need everyone to give
one hundred and ten percent today. It’s going to
be tough, but we’ve got a great team here, and
I know that together we can tackle this project.
That being said, let’s get to work!
B: That’s right. Now, remember, we’ve been over the
plans, but we really need to make sure that every-
thing is up to code. The home inspectors here are
pretty thorough, so please make sure you follow
the plans exactly. And remember the carpenter’s
rule of thumb: measure twice and cut once.
A: Okay, guys. Let’s get at it. Bob! Pass me that
hammer! The nails won’t go in; the wood is too
hard. I think I’m gonna need the nail gun. That
did it!
C: Do me a favor and help me cut this two-by-four,
will ya? Pass me the circular saw, and grab hold
of the end of the board. Now help me drill some
holes in it so we can place the bolts.
B: I think you should sand the edges. Look at
all these splinters, someone could get hurt.
Geez...you gotta take pride in your work!
C: Yeah, you’re right. Pass me the sander and I’ll
take care of it.
A: Julia! Get over here with the level, measuring tape
and that box of screws!
C: Oh, no! Look out below!
M: Alright, so, there’re a lot of people building the deck. They have to build it fast. They’ve 
only got one day, so it’s a really big challenge, huh? 
E: Yeah, and I think this is a good lesson in, uh, maybe not rushing through important 
projects, right? 
M: Exactly. So, we saw some really interesting tools that they were using, so why don’t we 
look at that first in “language takeaway”? 
Voice: Language takeaway. 
E: Alright, so, we’ve got some of the language all about tools. So, why don’t we just get 
started? So, they mentioned a nail gun. 
M: Nail gun. 
E: A nail gun. 
M: So, we all know about hammers and nails, right? 
E: Right, so, the… so, the nails are what you put in the wood. 
M: Exactly. Now, this is an advanced tool, so you don’t have to use a hammer. It’s kind of 
hard to explain, so why don’t we listen to the sound this tool makes. 
The sound of a nail gun. 
E: Well, I guess like its name suggests it’s a gun for putting nails in wood. 
M: Yeah, it… it actually uses compressed air to push nails really fast into the wood. 
E: Alright. Alright so, they’re nailing some… some… some pieces of wood together, but they 
also needed to cut the wood and they said, um, help me cut the two-by-four. 
M: Yeah, she said “Help me cut this two-by-four”. 
E: So, a two-by-four. 
M: This is a very popular type of wood that you use in construction. A two-by-four is 
basically two inches by four inches. 
E: So, two inches high and four inches wide. 
M: Uhu. So, it’s the most popular and common type of wood that you would use for 
construction – a two-by-four. You’ll hear it all the time. 
E: So, they’re gonna cut the two-by-four and C said “Pass me thecircular saw”. 
M: A circular saw. 
E: A circular saw. 
M: So, a saw, we understand, is something you use to cut wood. 
E: Uhu. 
M: But you have many types of saws. You have a band saw, you have a circular saw and 
this one makes this sound. 
The sound of a circular saw. 
E: So, I guess it’s called a circular saw, because the blade or the cutting part is shaped in 
a circle. 
M: Yeah, a circular saw. 
E: So, after they cut the piece of wood, one of the guys said “I think you should sand the 
edges”. 
M: To sand something. 
E: To sand something. 
M: Alright, so, if you wanna sand usually a piece of wood, you want to use paper covered 
in sand to make it very smooth. 
E: Yeah, exactly. And so, um, they also mentioned a sander, right? 
M: Uh, a sander is basically a machine that has this sandpaper on it and will do the hard 
work for you. 
E: Alright, so, to sand something and a sander. 
M: Now, our next word is very related to sanding something, because if you don’t sand a 
piece of wood, it might have splinters. 
E: Splinters. 
M: Splinter. 
E: Splinters. 
M: So, like I said if you cut a piece of wood there’re little pieces of wood that stick out and 
you can get hurt. They can get under your skin. 
E: Yeah, so, tiny, tiny parts of wood. 
M: Uhu, that’s called a splinter. 
E: Uhu, a splinter. Okay, so, why don’t we go on to our next tool? They were talking about 
a level. 
M: A level. 
E: The level. 
M: Right, so, this is a tool that all carpenters have and it’s basically a tool that has a little bit 
of water in it, right? 
E: Yeah, and it helps you make sure that everything is straight and flat. 
M: Exactly, so, that’s a level. Every carpenter has it. And also ameasuring tape. 
E: A measuring tape. 
M: Measuring tape. 
E: Now, I’m sure if this was a video podcast, we could show… show you what a measuring 
tape was and you would really understand it, but we’ll do our best to describe it for you. 
So, a measuring tape is like a ruler that rolls up. 
M: Uhu. Yeah, it’s a very convenient ruler, because you can… it can roll up and you can 
measure something that is maybe six feet or, uh… three meters long. 
E: Uhu. 
M: And you can extend it and when you done measuring, you can put it back and just put in 
your pocket. 
E: Yeah, every, every carpenter has one. 
M: A measuring tape. 
E: Alright, so, that’s our last tool that we’re gonna talk about, so why don’t we move on 
now to “fluency builder”, whe… where we’ve got some, uh, phrases f… that you can use to 
talk about work? 
Voice: Fluency builder. 
M: So, when the contractor started giving them instructions, he said “I need everyone to 
give one hundred and ten percent (110%)today”. 
E: To give a hundred and ten percent. 
M: So, when you give a hundred and ten percent, you are basically trying very hard. 
E: Yeah, you… you give everything you have to your job. 
M: Right, so, it’s not only a hundred percent, it’s a hundred and ten. More than what’s 
needed. 
E: So, no lunch break. 
M: Exactly. So, as they were talking about the instructions, one of the guys said “The 
carpenter’s rule of thumb”. 
E: A rule of thumb. 
M: So, this is an interesting phrase – rule of thumb. 
E: Uhu. 
M: What does that mean exactly? 
E: Okay, well, you know what, I think we can understand the meaning pretty clearly if we 
listen to some examples. 
Voice: Example one. 
A: The rule of thumb in making a sale is confidence. Without confidence you don’t make a 
sale. 
Voice: Example two. 
B: The tailor’s rule of thumb is twice the circumference of the wristis the circumference of 
the neck. 
Voice: Example three. 
C: You don’t have to take everything I say about marketing as a rule of thumb. 
E: Um, one of the guys noticed a few problems, you know, the splinters, um, and he said 
“You’ve got to take pride in your work”. 
M: Okay, so, to take pride in your work. 
E: To take pride in your work. 
M: Why did he say that to her? Wha… What is he trying to tell her? 
E: Well, because she made a… some mistakes, she didn’t do such a good job, he’s wanting 
her to work harder, work better… work more carefully. 
M: Okay, and so, she can be proud of her work and say “This is a job well done”. 
E: So, when you take pride in your work, you work so well and do such a good job that you 
feel really happy about it. 
M: Alright, good. So, why don’t we listen to this dialogue again for the last time and, uh, 
then we’ll come back and talk about construction. 
A: Alright, ladies and gentlemen. We’ve been hired
to build a deck on this here house, and turn this
boring and drab lawn into a backyard oasis. There
is one catch, though. We’ve only got one day to
finish this, so I’m gonna need everyone to give
one hundred and ten percent today. It’s going to
be tough, but we’ve got a great team here, and
I know that together we can tackle this project.
That being said, let’s get to work!
B: That’s right. Now, remember, we’ve been over the
plans, but we really need to make sure that every-
thing is up to code. The home inspectors here are
pretty thorough, so please make sure you follow
the plans exactly. And remember the carpenter’s
rule of thumb: measure twice and cut once.
A: Okay, guys. Let’s get at it. Bob! Pass me that
hammer! The nails won’t go in; the wood is too
hard. I think I’m gonna need the nail gun. That
did it!
C: Do me a favor and help me cut this two-by-four,
will ya? Pass me the circular saw, and grab hold
of the end of the board. Now help me drill some
holes in it so we can place the bolts.
B: I think you should sand the edges. Look at
all these splinters, someone could get hurt.
Geez...you gotta take pride in your work!
C: Yeah, you’re right. Pass me the sander and I’ll
take care of it.
A: Julia! Get over here with the level, measuring tape
and that box of screws!
C: Oh, no! Look out below!
M: So, an interesting aspect of North American culture is, uh, projects like this, right? 
Building a deck or maybe adding a room to your house. 
E: Yeah, that’s right and we call this, um, DIY. 
M: Right, DIY – do it yourself. 
E: Uhu. 
M: So, it’s a very popular summer project, right? 
E: Right, so, if you live, um, in a… in a neighborhood in North America, you might see like, 
you know, the dad of a family outside building something and all his friends come over and 
they, you know, drink beer and build this big thing together. 
M: Right, so, it could be a tree house, it could be a deck, it could even maybe be adding 
another room to the house. 
E: Yeah, and you know, it’s actually… it’s so popular that there’re tons of TV shows about 
how to build stuff for your house and there are a lot of really big stores where you can go 
and find like all of this equipment for building stuff for your house. 
M: Right, so, basically, there’re these big stores where you can get anything from paint to 
wood to tools, huge amount of, uh, materials, so you can do it yourself. 
E: Uhu, you can DIY. 
M: Alright, so, that’s all the time we have for today, but let us know what you think and tell 
us if you are into doing handy work like this, like maybe building a tree house or building a 
deck. 
E: That’s right, you can come to our website at englishpod.com and tell us about it. As 
well you can also leave your questions there. 
M: Alright, so, we’ll see you guys there and until next time… 
E: Thanks for listening and… Good bye! 
M: Bye! 
 
  
