 Hello everyone and welcome to EnglishPod.
My name is Marco.
My name is Catherine and today we're talking about a very popular kind of movie.
That's right.
Today we're talking about Twilight and all the creatures that you can find in this new movie.
Okay, so the name of the movie is Twilight.
Let's take a listen to today's dialogue.
We'll be back in a moment to talk about what's going on.
You want to go to the movies tonight?
Sure!
What's playing?
The new Twilight movie!
Twilight?
As in the vampire movies?
No way am I watching that.
I don't understand why everyone is so excited about these films about vampires.
It doesn't make sense.
Of course it does!
It's like a modern tale of Romeo and Juliet.
You have a couple that is in love but can't be together because they are so different.
Add in the fact that immortality and superhuman strength is really sexy and there you have it.
Plus the cast is hip.
Young people that make the movie even more enticing.
I don't buy into that.
I think it's just a fad.
Pretty soon this will pass and everyone will be into werewolves or zombies.
Alright we're back so now let's just jump into some vocab and let's take a look at what we've chosen for you on Language Takeaway.
Language Takeaway.
Okay so on Language Takeaway today Marco we have three different kinds of creature or monster.
That's right so if anyone knows about the movie Twilight it's mostly about vampires.
That's right so vampires are a kind of imaginary creature that like to suck people's blood.
Right.
They have long teeth.
That's right so they look like people and they go out at night and they drink people's blood.
And they can't stand in the sunlight because they will die if they're in the sunlight.
That's right.
Alright so we have vampires and also another type of imaginary creature that we find here is werewolves.
We can find werewolves.
Okay so you know the word wolf.
A wolf is an animal but a werewolf is a man or woman who turns into an animal when the moon is full.
Right so you're a man or a woman by day but then at night when there is a full moon you transform into a wolf so you are a werewolf.
And we have one other kind of monster here.
This is a very disgusting kind of monster called a zombie.
Alright also very popular in the movies you have zombies so they're people who are dead but they're still alive.
That's right so they can't think.
All they want to do is eat other people.
And they're usually very very stupid and you have to cut their heads off to kill them.
That's right.
So zombies are also a very popular type of creature in these movies so we have three creatures vampires werewolves and zombies.
But now let's move on to some of the other vocab that we found.
When the friend was explaining about the movie and how it's very cool she said that the cast is hip.
Okay so something that is hip is also very cool.
So a hip person is someone who is really interesting or cool or maybe up to date current.
Right very popular.
So for example you can also talk about a place a restaurant or a club as being very hip.
That's right so you can say these days bell bottom pants are not hip anymore.
They were hip in the 1970s.
That's right so they're not cool they're not popular they're not up to date.
Now moving on to the end of that paragraph we see that the explanation continued in saying that the movie makes it even more enticing having a hip cast and a sexy theme.
So something that is enticing it makes you want it.
Okay so an enticing movie attracts people.
So I find warm apple pie very enticing.
It makes me want to eat it.
Okay so something that is enticing basically makes you want to have it or it makes you desire it.
Exactly.
Alright and our last word for language takeaway when the friend was kind of skeptical and said you know what I think it's just a fad.
Okay something is a fad if it is a passing trend.
So it's not always popular it's only popular for a short time.
So the word is fad f-a-d it sounds very similar to fat but it's not it's a fad.
Fad.
So we can say that Twilight is a fad it's something that's popular now but that might not be popular in two years.
Exactly so it's something that's very popular now but maybe later it won't be like maybe for example Harry Potter was a fad.
Exactly so that's language takeaway for today but don't go anywhere we still have some great phrases for you coming up in Fluency Builder.
You want to go to the movies tonight?
Sure what's playing?
The new Twilight movie.
Twilight as in the vampire movies?
No way am I watching that.
I don't understand why everyone is so excited about these films about vampires.
It doesn't make sense.
Of course it does it's like a modern tale of Romeo and Juliet.
You have a couple that is in love but can't be together because they are so different.
Add in the fact that immortality and superhuman strength is really sexy and there you have it.
Plus the cast is hip young people that make the movie even more enticing.
I don't buy into that.
I think it's just a fad.
Pretty soon this will pass and everyone will be into werewolves or zombies.
Alright we're back so now let's take a look at a couple of phrases we've picked out for you on Fluency Builder.
Fluency Builder.
The first phrase that we have today is related to this idea of going to the movies and so one of the characters said sure I want to go to the movies.
What's playing?
That's right now this question is a key question and you can use this whenever you want to know what movie is currently being shown at the theater or at the cinema.
Okay so what movie is playing?
There are many movies playing or there are no good movies playing tonight.
That's right.
So a movie plays at a theater.
Exactly so you want to know what movie is playing you say what movie is playing tonight.
Alright so now for our next phrase this is actually going back to the qualities of vampires.
One of the people in the dialogue described vampires as having superhuman strength.
Okay so in this case super means more than.
So superhuman strength is more than what's normal for a human being.
So maybe a human can pick up a table but superhuman strength means that if I have it maybe I can pick up a car.
That's right.
Or something that's very unusual they're very heavy.
That's right so superhuman strength we're talking about how strong you are and then you can also mix it up with other qualities of a person so for example you can have superhuman speed.
You're very very fast.
Superman is someone who had both superhuman strength and superhuman speed.
That's right so it's a way to describe a person having a quality that's more than normal.
And for our next phrase after superhuman strength and something that's really sexy that person says and there you have it.
And there you have it.
So how do why do you end that sentence where there you have it.
And there you have it means and that's the explanation why.
Okay so let's think of the question.
The question is why do people like these vampire movies.
And the other person said well vampires are sexy and they're immortal and they have superhuman strength.
And there you have it.
So that means and that's why.
Okay so it's usually this phrase and there you have it you have to explain something or give a couple of ideas before you say it before you use it.
Alright and exactly and the key here is that and there you have it comes at the end of that statement.
Always.
Well you know why is Jim popular.
You could say well he's funny he's smart he's good looking and there you have it.
Right perfect.
So you're basically saying and that's the reason why.
All right and for our last phrase when we were talking about a fad the person said pretty soon this will pass and everyone will be into werewolves or zombies.
So this might seem a little bit confusing what does it mean by everyone will be into werewolves and zombies.
Okay so let's take a look at this as a phrase.
To be into.
I am into something.
You are into something.
This means I am interested in.
Okay so I could say I am into books and movies.
Marco what are you into.
So if I say I am into surfing and bungee jumping.
I would say it sounds like you're interested in or it sounds like you like sports extreme sports.
So you can be not only into activities but you can be into a specific type of movies for example I'm really into horror movies.
And I could say I'm not into horror movies I am into romantic comedies.
Okay so it's another way of saying that you enjoy it or you like it or you realize some type of activity.
Exactly.
Alright that's it for Fluency Builder let's take another listen to today's dialogue and we'll be right back.
You want to go to the movies tonight.
Sure what's playing.
The new Twilight movie.
Twilight as in the vampire movies.
No way am I watching that.
I don't understand why everyone is so excited about these films about vampires.
It doesn't make sense.
Of course it does.
It's like a modern tale of Romeo and Juliet.
You have a couple that is in love but can't be together because they are so different.
Add in the fact that immortality and superhuman strength is really sexy and there you have it.
Plus the cast is hip.
Young people that make the movie even more enticing.
I don't buy into that.
I think it's just a fad.
Pretty soon this will pass and everyone will be into werewolves or zombies.
Alright we're back so obviously the dialogue revolves around Twilight and vampires but mostly it's all about as we said something that's hip that's current that's popular now but many times is also a fad.
That's right so let's think what was a fad from the 1980s.
I think the 80s the fad was maybe we can talk about the hairstyles men and women had those big kind of hairstyles long in the back and very tall in the front.
That's right so in the 80s as far as fashion fads things that were only popular for a short time we had big hair and we had bright colors like electric pink and green and blue and also those t-shirts that would change color when it was hot or cold.
Oh those were really cool.
Those should come back.
Those were super hip.
Well now it's hip to wear 80s clothes.
Yeah.
So it's another fad.
Right exactly because then that's called that you're being you like what is it like retro retro.
Yeah.
Yeah retro means you like to use styles from a long time ago so yeah 70s style.
And well in the movies now the fad before was magic and sorcerers you had Harry Potter.
Now it's turned to vampires.
That's right.
I wonder what the fad will be in a couple of years.
I don't think I don't agree with the person in today's dialogue.
I don't think zombies will be a fad.
There was a short period a couple of years ago when there were many many zombie movies.
Yeah.
For example Resident Evil or Shaun of the Dead.
Yeah.
But I wonder in the future if we're going to be seeing movies about other things.
Yeah I imagine maybe not in these this this creatures.
I don't know.
I guess vampires have always been kind of sexy because as you know they they're immortal and they're good looking.
They're usually very good looking and charming and that's how they get their victims.
That's right.
But it's interesting to see.
Let us know.
We're really curious if there are any local fads in your country because sometimes fads can be regional.
That's right.
So let us know what you're into.
Say I'm into this.
Our website is EnglishPod.com.
All right.
We'll see you guys there.
Bye.